content/en/go/downloading-a-web-page.md, before:

---
title:                "Downloading a web page"
html_title:           "Bash recipe: Downloading a web page"
simple_title:         "Downloading a web page"
programming_language: "Go"
category:             "Go"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/go/downloading-a-web-page.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Downloading a webpage is the process of pulling down data from a specific URL to your machine. This is something programmers often do when building web scrapers or bots, or when testing their own sites for performance and compatibility.

## How to:
In Go, we use the `net/http` package to make this happen. Here, I'll download Google's homepage and print it:

```Go
package main

import (
	"io/ioutil"
	"net/http"
	"fmt"
)

func main() {
	resp, err := http.Get("http://www.google.com")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	body, err := ioutil.ReadAll(resp.Body)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	fmt.Println(string(body))
}
```
In this example, we send a GET request to www.google.com using `http.Get`. Then, we read the response body into `body` variable and print it out. If errors occur, we use `panic` to fail immediately.

## Deep Dive
This technique of downloading a page has been around since the early days of the internet when pages were simple HTML. Today, it's often not as simple as just pulling down a webpage due to dynamic content rendered on the client-side with JavaScript. 

Alternatives to simple HTTP get requests are numerous, and selection should be based on the complexity of the page. You might need to use something like Selenium WebDriver if you're dealing with complex and highly interactive webpages.

Implementation-wise, `http.Get` in our example is pretty straightforward. It establishes an HTTP connection and returns a pointer to the `Response` which contains the server's response to the HTTP request. `ioutil.ReadAll` is reading the response body. It's important to always check for errors when making network calls and handle them appropriately to avoid crashes and undefined behavior in Go.

## See Also
- [`net/http` package documentation](http://golang.org/pkg/net/http/)
- [A more advanced web scraper written in Go](https://github.com/gocolly/colly)
- [Selenium WebDriver documentation](https://www.selenium.dev/documentation/en/)
- [An example of using Selenium with Go](https://github.com/tebeka/selenium)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/go/downloading-a-web-page.md, after:

---
title:                "Downloading a web page"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:44:05.854805-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Downloading a web page"
programming_language: "Go"
category:             "Go"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/go/downloading-a-web-page.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Downloading a web page means fetching its content through HTTP. Programmers do it to interact with web services, scrape data, or monitor site uptime.

## How to:

In Go, downloading a web page is a breeze with the `net/http` package. Here's the short of it:

```Go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"io/ioutil"
	"net/http"
)

func main() {
	resp, err := http.Get("http://example.com")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	defer resp.Body.Close()

	body, err := ioutil.ReadAll(resp.Body)
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}

	fmt.Println(string(body))
}
```

Run it, and you'll get the HTML of `http://example.com` slapped onto your screen, give or take some HTTP headers.

## Deep Dive

Back in the day, fetching web content was a wild west of socket programming and hand-crafted HTTP requests. Now, libraries like Go's `http` take the grunt work out of our hands.

Why not just `curl` or `wget`? Automation, my friend. Embedding the download logic in your code makes it repeatable and integratable.

Under the hood, `http.Get` makes a GET request, manages cookies, and more. You can control timeouts, headers, and go as deep as custom transports. But that's a story for another day.

As for alternatives, you might consider `http.Client` if you need more control, or third-party packages like `gorequest` for a different flavour.

## See Also

- The Go net/http package docs: https://pkg.go.dev/net/http
- Effective Go for best practices: https://golang.org/doc/effective_go
- Go by Example for more hands-on snippets: https://gobyexample.com/
