---
title:                "Go recipe: Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Go"
category:             "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/go/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

Generating random numbers is a crucial component in many fields of computer science, including cryptography, simulation, and game development. With Go's built-in functions and packages, it is now easier than ever to incorporate random numbers into your programs.

## How To

Firstly, we need to import the "math/rand" package in our Go program. This package provides various functions for generating random numbers. To generate a random integer between 0 and 100, we can use the "rand.Intn" function as follows:

```Go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"math/rand"
)

func main() {
	randomNumber := rand.Intn(101) // generates a random number between 0 and 100
	fmt.Println(randomNumber)
}
```

The output of this program will be a random integer between 0 and 100.

We can also generate a random float number between 0.0 and 1.0 using the "rand.Float64" function:

```Go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"math/rand"
)

func main() {
	randomFloat := rand.Float64() // generates a random float number between 0.0 and 1.0
	fmt.Println(randomFloat)
}
```

To get more control over the range of numbers, we can multiply the result of "rand.Float64" by our desired range and then add the minimum value. For example, to generate a random number between 10 and 20, we can use the following code:

```Go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"math/rand"
)

func main() {
	randomNumber := 10 + rand.Float64()*10 // generates a random number between 10 and 20
	fmt.Println(randomNumber)
}
```

There are many other functions in the "math/rand" package that allow us to generate random numbers of various data types and ranges. You can explore the official documentation for more detailed information.

## Deep Dive

Behind the scenes, Go uses a pseudo-random number generator (PRNG) to generate these random numbers. This means that the numbers are not truly random, but they are generated by a deterministic algorithm. The PRNG takes a seed value, performs some mathematical operations on it, and generates a sequence of numbers based on that seed. This sequence of numbers appears to be random, but it can be reproduced if the same seed value is used.

By default, Go's PRNG uses the current time as its seed value. This means that if we run our program multiple times in a short period, we will get the same sequence of numbers. To avoid this, we can use the "rand.Seed" function to provide a different seed value each time our program runs. A common practice is to use the current Unix timestamp or a combination of current time and other factors as the seed value.

## See Also

- Official documentation for the "math/rand" package: https://golang.org/pkg/math/rand/
- Understanding pseudo-random number generators: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudorandom_number_generator
- More about seeding in Go: https://gobyexample.com/random-numbers