content/en/bash/comparing-two-dates.md, before:

---
title:                "Comparing two dates"
html_title:           "Bash recipe: Comparing two dates"
simple_title:         "Comparing two dates"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Bash"
tag:                  "Dates and Times"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/comparing-two-dates.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Comparing two dates is a common task in programming, where we compare two sets of date and time values to determine their relationship. This is often done to check if one date is before, after, or equal to another date. Programmers do this to validate user input, sort data, and control program flow based on specific dates.

## How to:
To compare two dates in Bash, we can use the built-in ```test``` command, also known as ```[ ]```, along with the operators ```-gt```, ```-lt```, and ```-eq``` to compare greater than, less than, and equal to respectively. We can also use the ```date``` command to convert the dates into a format that can be compared. Below are some examples:

- To check if 10th April 2021 is after 1st January 2021:
```Bash
[ 20210410 -gt 20210101 ] && echo "10th April 2021 is after 1st January 2021"
```
Output: ```10th April 2021 is after 1st January 2021```

- To check if the current date and time is before 31st December 2021, we can use the ```date``` command:
```Bash
[ $(date +%Y%m%d%H%M%S) -lt 20211231000000 ] && echo "Current date and time is before 31st December 2021"
```
Output: ```Current date and time is before 31st December 2021```

- We can also compare dates in alternate formats, such as with ```date -d``` command, which takes a string as an argument and converts it into a date:
```Bash
[ $(date -d "2021-06-25" +%s) -gt $(date -d "2021-06-24" +%s) ] && echo "25th June 2021 is after 24th June 2021"
```
Output: ```25th June 2021 is after 24th June 2021```

## Deep Dive:
Comparing dates is not a new concept, as dates have been used to keep track of time for centuries. In Bash, the ```test``` command is used to check for certain conditions and return an exit status based on the outcome. This exit status is then used to control the flow of the program. As an alternative, we can also use the ```((${var#pattern}))``` construct, which checks for a specific pattern within a variable and returns a boolean result.

Furthermore, the implementation of comparing dates in Bash depends on the specific scenario and the desired output. Dates can be compared using various formats, such as epoch (seconds since 1st January 1970), day of the week, or day of year. It is essential to carefully choose the date format to ensure accurate comparisons.

## See Also:
- Bash ```test``` command: https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Bash-Conditional-Expressions.html
- Bash Arithmetic Expansion: https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Arithmetic-Expansion.html
- Date command in Bash: https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Bash-as-an-integer_002dcomparison-operator.html
- Date formats in Bash: https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Date-Methods.html#Date-Methods

Commit message:

content with gpt4 (#8)
* english python gleam and elixir

* Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/bash/comparing-two-dates.md, after:

---
title:                "Comparing two dates"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Comparing two dates"
simple_title:         "Comparing two dates"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Bash"
tag:                  "Dates and Times"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/comparing-two-dates.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# BASH Guide: Comparing Dates - Why, How & Beyond

## What & Why?

Date comparison in Bash involves assessing two or more dates in relation to each other to determine whether one is earlier, later or the same. This is vital for programmers for automating tasks concerning scheduling, file backups, data archiving, and much more.

## How to:

Use the Unix `date` command to extract current date, format it and compare it with a specific date.
  
```bash
date1=$(date -d "2021-10-19" +%s) 
date2=$(date -d "2021-12-19" +%s) 

if [ $date1 -lt $date2 ]; then
  echo "date1 is earlier than date2"
else
  echo "dates are equal or date1 is later"
fi
```
This script converts each date to Unix Epoch time (seconds passed since 1970-01-01 00:00:00 UTC, ignores leap seconds). Bash can then compare these integers.

## Deep Dive

Historically, Bash didn't inherently support date comparison, so many programmers used external commands or languages, like Perl or Python. However, Bash has evolved and using `date` command along with `if/else` construct is a straightforward and efficient approach.

Some alternatives still include utilizing `strtotime` function in PHP or using Date objects in Javascript. But Bash obviates the need of any such second language.

Inside Bash, it's all about time stamp conversion. The `date -d` command takes a string and converts it into a date. The `+%s` formatter converts this date into Unix Epoch format that can finally be compared in an integer format.

## See Also 

1. [The "date" man page](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/date.1.html): Detailed descriptions of display formats and command-line options.
2. [GNU Coreutils](https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/coreutils.html) :  Basic file, shell, and text manipulation commands of the GNU operating system.
3. [Unix StackExchange](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/321267/how-should-i-compare-dates-in-bash): Community forums for more real-life solutions and answers related to Unix & Linux.
