content/en/bash/creating-a-temporary-file.md, before:

---
title:                "Creating a temporary file"
html_title:           "C# recipe: Creating a temporary file"
simple_title:         "Creating a temporary file"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Bash"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/creating-a-temporary-file.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Creating a temporary file in Bash means generating an ephemeral, standalone file, often used for storing data temporarily during a Bash session. Programmers do this to manipulate data without affecting original inputs - it's a neat way to handle intermediate results or run tests without any permanent changes.

## How to:

Here's how to create and use a temp file:

```Bash
# Creating a temporary file:
temp_file=$(mktemp)

# Let's write something to it:
echo "Hello, World!" > "$temp_file"

# Now, let's read from the file:
cat "$temp_file"
```

The output should be `Hello, World!`. The `mktemp` command assigns a unique temporary file to 'temp_file', and we then write and read from it.

## Deep Dive:

The utility `mktemp` makes temp files in Bash. This Unix standard dates back to the 90s and safely generates unique temp file names, eliminating risks associated with common ones. 

Alternative methods to create a temp file, notably `tempfile`, exists but isn't as popular or recommended because of lesser safety features. Another alternative is manual naming, but it can lead to file clashes and isn't safe.

When you create a temp file, it resides in the system's temp directory, usually '/tmp' on Linux systems. They are automatically cleaned during reboots or by system polices at preset intervals, usually every few days.

## See Also:

1. `mktemp` Manpage: [https://linux.die.net/man/1/mktemp](https://linux.die.net/man/1/mktemp)
2. Advanced Bash-Scripting Guide - Temp files: [https://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/tempfiles.html](https://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/tempfiles.html)
3. GNU mktemp: [https://www.gnu.org/software/autogen/mktemp.html](https://www.gnu.org/software/autogen/mktemp.html)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/bash/creating-a-temporary-file.md, after:

---
title:                "Creating a temporary file"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:39:21.906784-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Creating a temporary file"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Bash"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/creating-a-temporary-file.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Creating a temporary file in Bash means making a file that your scripts can use to store data briefly. Programmers do this to stash bits of info while running complex tasks, avoid cluttering up the hard drive, and to minimize conflicts between different processes trying to use the same file.

## How to:
Bash has a built-in command called `mktemp` to make temporary files easily:

```Bash
# Create a temporary file
temp_file=$(mktemp)

# Check out our fresh temporary file
echo "Temporary file created: $temp_file"

# Use the temporary file
echo "Some data" > "$temp_file"

# Read it back
cat "$temp_file"

# Tidy up: remove the file when you're done
rm "$temp_file"
```
Output:
```
Temporary file created: /tmp/tmp.Iy5nv69sed
Some data
```

## Deep Dive
Temporary files have been in UNIX since the early days, letting users deal with intermediate data without manual cleanup. In Bash scripting, `mktemp` is the modern take, coming with options for creating both files (`mktemp`) and directories (`mktemp -d`). The command makes a unique file every time it's called, which dodges file collision issues that happen when multiple instances of a script or different scripts are running at the same time.

Before `mktemp`, programmers would manually create files with names they hoped would be unique. Clashes were common, leading to data loss and security issues. `mktemp` helps prevent that by ensuring that the filename is unique with a mix of predictable patterns and random characters. Unlike regular files, these temporary ones are meant to be deleted after use, keeping the system tidy.

Some alternatives to `mktemp` include using `/dev/shm` for in-memory temp files, or crafting one with date and process ID (`$$`), but these methods come with more risks of conflicts.

## See Also
- The man page for mktemp: run `man mktemp` in Bash.
- [GNU Coreutils Manual](https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/manual/coreutils.html): for details on standard GNU/Linux commands.
- [Advanced Bash-Scripting Guide](https://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/): for more complex scripting techniques and examples.
