content/en/bash/downloading-a-web-page.md, before:

---
title:                "Downloading a web page"
html_title:           "Bash recipe: Downloading a web page"
simple_title:         "Downloading a web page"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Bash"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/downloading-a-web-page.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Downloading a web page is just grabbing its data onto your local machine. It's an important tool for programmers since it enables data mining, offline browsing, and website testing.

## How to:

Straight to the show; let's download a webpage using Curl command in Bash:

```Bash
curl https://example.com > example.html
```

That's it. The webpage is down in 'example.html'. Now, to print it in the console:

```Bash
curl https://example.com
```

It's like Bash is reading the webpage for you.

## Deep Dive

Historically, this capability traces back to early internet days—when dial-up connections were still a thing. Now it's faster and more efficient.

You might be thinking, 'What if I don't want to use Curl command?' Well, as a programmer, it's healthy to have choices, and you have `wget`. Here's how it's done:

```Bash
wget https://example.com
```

Unlike Curl, `wget` automatically stores the page in a file.

Speaking of implementation details, both Curl and `wget` go through similar processes - a sequence of DNS resolution, TCP handshake, HTTP request, and then the actual data transfer.

## See Also

1. Curl vs. Wget: [https://daniel.haxx.se/docs/curl-vs-wget.html](https://daniel.haxx.se/docs/curl-vs-wget.html)
2. Curl man page: [https://curl.haxx.se/docs/manpage.html](https://curl.haxx.se/docs/manpage.html)
3. Wget man page: [https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/manual/wget.html](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/manual/wget.html)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/bash/downloading-a-web-page.md, after:

---
title:                "Downloading a web page"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:43:30.213686-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Downloading a web page"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Bash"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/downloading-a-web-page.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Downloading a web page means grabbing the data from the internet and saving it locally. Programmers do it for web scraping, offline analysis, or backup purposes.

## How to:
The go-to tool for this job? `curl`. It's a powerful command-line utility that fetches data from the web. Here’s the simplest use case:

```Bash
curl https://example.com -o webpage.html
```

This command downloads the HTML of `example.com` and writes it to a file named `webpage.html`. Check out the output:

```Bash
# Sample Output
  % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                 Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
100  1256  100  1256    0     0   6458      0 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  6497
```

Want to see what you're downloading in real-time? Drop the `-o` and the download prints right in your console:

```Bash
curl https://example.com
```

## Deep Dive
`curl` has been around since 1997, carving its niche for web operations. Why `curl` over browser downloads? Automation and script-friendliness. It's non-interactive and can be woven into bash scripts with ease.

Alternatives worth mentioning: `wget`, another command-line powerhouse that can recursively download web pages. For heavy-duty scraping or when needing a real browser context, programmers turn to tools like Selenium, Puppeteer, or Scrapy.

Getting into `curl`'s workings: It supports multiple protocols, from HTTP and HTTPS to FTP, and a slew of options (--header, --cookie, --user-agent, etc.) for fine-tuning requests. Plus, it usually comes pre-installed on Unix-based systems.

## See Also
- Curl Documentation: https://curl.haxx.se/docs/manpage.html
- Wget Manual: https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/manual/wget.html
- Introduction to web scraping with Python: https://realpython.com/python-web-scraping-practical-introduction/
