content/en/bash/extracting-substrings.md, before:

---
title:                "Extracting substrings"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Extracting substrings"
simple_title:         "Extracting substrings"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Bash"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/extracting-substrings.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Extracting substrings is the process of cutting out a sequence of characters from a string. It's a useful operation in scripting and programming as it allows programmers to manipulate and analyze data accurately.

## How To:

Pulling substrings from a string in Bash is achieved by utilizing the `${string:position:length}` syntax.

```Bash
string="Hello World!"
echo ${string:0:5}
```
Output:
```Bash
Hello
```
This command takes the first 5 characters from "Hello World!", hence the output `Hello`.

```Bash
echo ${string:6}
```
Output:
```Bash
World!
```
This command removes the first 6 characters from the string, hence outputting `World!`.

## Deep Dive

Historically, substring extraction in Unix-like systems was accomplished with external tools (like `cut` or `awk`). The modern version of Bash introduced the built-in substring mechanism, making scripting more efficient.

There are alternatives methods to extract substrings such as `expr substr` and `awk`, however, the native bash method is less complex and more efficient.

The implementation in Bash is accomplished on-the-fly during the script processing and doesn't require additional system resources unlike external tools. This complements bash's design philosophy to be an efficient scripting language.

## See Also

- Bash Guide for Beginners: [https://tldp.org/LDP/Bash-Beginners-Guide/html/](https://tldp.org/LDP/Bash-Beginners-Guide/html/)
- Advanced Bash-Scripting Guide: [https://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/](https://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/)
- GNU Bash Manual: [https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/bash.html](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/bash.html)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/bash/extracting-substrings.md, after:

---
title:                "Extracting substrings"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:45:02.853770-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Extracting substrings"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Bash"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/extracting-substrings.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Extracting substrings means pulling out specific parts of strings — think like snipping a bit of thread from a sweater. Programmers do it to isolate, analyze, or manipulate data ingrained in text.

## How to:

Here's the lowdown on substring extraction in Bash:

```Bash
# Using ${string:start:length}
text="The quick brown fox"
substring=${text:4:5}
echo $substring  # Outputs 'quick'

# Default length is rest of the string
substring=${text:16}
echo $substring  # Outputs 'fox'

# Negative start index (from the end of the string)
substring=${text: -3}
echo $substring  # Outputs 'fox'
```

## Deep Dive

Bash has handled strings since way back. Extracting substrings is an old-school trick, but still super handy. Before fancy tools, we just had parameter expansion – the `${}` syntax – and it's stood the test of time.

Alternatives? Sure. `awk`, `cut`, and `grep` can all slice and dice strings in their own way. But for a quick, no-extra-spawn job, Bash's built-in method is efficient.

Implementation-wise, Bash grabs substrings without fuss. It doesn't care what's inside your string: text, numbers, unicorn emojis – whatever. Just give it the start and end, and it'll blindly snip that piece out.

## See Also

Dive deeper and check out these links:

- Bash's manual on parameter expansion: `man bash` and search for *Parameter Expansion*
- `awk` and `grep` deep dives: [Awk Tutorial](https://www.gnu.org/software/gawk/manual/) and [Grep Manual](https://www.gnu.org/software/grep/manual/grep.html)
- A broader look at string manipulation in Bash: [Bash String Manipulation Guide](https://www.tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/string-manipulation.html)
