---
title:                "Bash recipe: Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why
Programming is all about problem-solving and finding efficient solutions to tasks. One interesting task that often comes up in programming is generating random numbers. Random numbers play a crucial role in various applications, ranging from gambling to scientific simulations. In this blog post, we will explore how to generate random numbers using Bash programming.

## How To
To generate random numbers using Bash, we will use the built-in `RANDOM` variable. This variable stores a random integer between 0 and 32767 every time it is invoked. Let's take a look at a simple example:

```Bash
#!/bin/bash
echo "Random number between 0 and 10: $((RANDOM % 10))"
echo "Random number between 0 and 100: $((RANDOM % 100))"
```

Running this script will output two random numbers between the specified range. Notice how we use the modulus operator to set the range of our random numbers.

Output:
```
Random number between 0 and 10: 7
Random number between 0 and 100: 86
```

We can also generate random numbers within a specific range by using the `shuf` command. This command generates a random permutation or a random line from a file. Let's see an example:

```Bash
#!/bin/bash
rand_num=$(shuf -i 1-100 -n 1)
echo "Random number between 1 and 100: $rand_num"
```

Output:
```
Random number between 1 and 100: 27
```

We can also generate random strings using the `shuf` command. For example, we can generate a random password by shuffling characters from the alphanumeric range:

```Bash
#!/bin/bash
password=$(shuf -i 0-9 -n 3 | tr -d '\n')$(shuf -i A-Z -n 2 | tr -d '\n')$(shuf -i a-z -n 2 | tr -d '\n')
echo "Random password: $password"
```

Output:
```
Random password: 9EG5Gwtp
```

## Deep Dive
Random numbers are generated by using mathematical algorithms that produce a sequence that is seemingly random. However, these algorithms are deterministic, meaning the sequence of random numbers can be reproduced if the seed or starting point is known. In Bash, the seed is set to the current time by default, but it can also be set manually using the `RANDOM` variable.

The `RANDOM` variable is a pseudorandom number generator and it follows a linear congruential formula, given by `(((seed * A) + C)) % M)`. The default values of `A`, `C`, and `M` are 1103515245, 12345, and 32768 respectively. These values can be modified to customize the output of `RANDOM` and generate different sequences of random numbers.

## See Also
- [Bash scripting cheatsheet](https://www.keycdn.com/blog/bash-scripting-cheat-sheet)
- [The Bash manual page](https://www.gnu.org/savannah-checkouts/gnu/bash/manual/bash.html)
- [Generating random numbers in Java](https://www.baeldung.com/java-generate-random-alphanumeric-scrambler)