content/en/bash/sending-an-http-request-with-basic-authentication.md, before:

---
title:                "Sending an http request with basic authentication"
html_title:           "Fish Shell recipe: Sending an http request with basic authentication"
simple_title:         "Sending an http request with basic authentication"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Bash"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/sending-an-http-request-with-basic-authentication.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Bash HTTP Requests With Basic Auth

## What & Why?

Sending an HTTP request with basic authentication involves including credentials within the request sent by Bash script. Programmers do this to access password-protected resources.

## How to:

Here's how you do it with the `curl` command.

```Bash
user="<your_username>"
password="<your_password>"
url="<api_url>"

# Send GET request
curl -u $user:$password $url
```

Upon running this command, you'll either get a response body or an error message.

## Deep Dive

Basic HTTP authentication is a simple solution that can solve lots of problems, but it's not always the perfect one. It was officially specified by the HTTP/1.0 release (RFC 1945) as a standard authorization method.

Although its implementation is straightforward, Basic Auth comes with a few security concerns. The main issue is that it merely Base64 encodes credentials, which does not provide any strong defense against eavesdroppers and is not recommended in a productive environment without the use of an SSL/TLS connection.

There are other methods like Digest authentication, OAuth, or JWT tokens that provide more secure ways of authorizing/verifying users or clients. Some applications might benefit more from these modern, secure, and flexible methods.

## See Also 

* GitHub's cURL Tutorial: https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/
* HTTP/1.0 Specification: https://www.w3.org/Protocols/HTTP/1.0/spec.html
* Wikipedia's Explanation on Basic Authentication: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication
* Base64 Encoding: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4648
* Alternative Auth methods:
  - Digest authentication: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7616
  - OAuth: https://oauth.net/
  - JWT tokens: https://jwt.io/introduction

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/bash/sending-an-http-request-with-basic-authentication.md, after:

---
title:                "Sending an http request with basic authentication"
date:                  2024-01-20T18:00:48.585045-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Sending an http request with basic authentication"
programming_language: "Bash"
category:             "Bash"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/bash/sending-an-http-request-with-basic-authentication.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Sending an HTTP request with basic authentication involves transmitting a username and password to confirm a user's identity. Programmers do this to access restricted resources on a server, ensuring some level of security.

## How to:

Let's get our hands dirty with some code. We'll use `curl`, a common command-line tool. Replace `username:password` with your credentials and `http://example.com/resource` with your target URL.

```Bash
curl -u username:password http://example.com/resource
```

Or encode your credentials in base64 beforehand and use them like so:

```Bash
# Encode credentials
credentials=$(echo -n username:password | base64)

# Sending the request
curl -H "Authorization: Basic $credentials" http://example.com/resource
```

Sample output for a successful request might look like this:

```Bash
{
  "data": "Some restricted info",
  "message": "Access granted"
}
```

## Deep Dive

Historically, basic authentication has been part of HTTP since the early days, but it's not without flaws – mainly its vulnerability if not used over a secure channel like HTTPS.

Alternatives include OAuth, which is more secure and provides finer-grained control over what's accessed. Digest authentication is another, sending hashed credentials rather than plain text.

As for the mechanics, when you send basic auth credentials, they're included in the HTTP header encoded in Base64. It's not encryption, so if you're not using HTTPS, anyone who intercepts the request can decode it easily. Using HTTPS secures the transmission, encrypting everything between client and server.

## See Also

- cURL official documentation: https://curl.haxx.se/docs/manpage.html
- HTTP Authentication: Basic and Digest Access Authentication (IETF RFC 7617): https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7617
- Introduction to OAuth: https://oauth.net/2/introduction/
