content/en/cpp/generating-random-numbers.md, before:

---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Generating random numbers"
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "C++"
category:             "C++"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/cpp/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Generating Random Numbers in C++

## What & Why?
Generating random numbers means producing sequences that have no discernible patterns. Programmers use this for creating test datasets, gaming, simulations, cryptography, and even in programs that need unique IDs.

## How to:
```C++
#include <random>
#include <iostream>

int main() {
    std::random_device rd; //Creating random_device object
    std::mt19937 gen(rd()); //Seed mt19937 generator
    std::uniform_int_distribution<> distr(1,6); //Defining the range

    for (int i = 0; i < 10; ++i) {
        std::cout << distr(gen) << " "; //Generating and printing random numbers in range 1-6
    }
    
    return 0;
}
```

Example of possible output:

```C++
3 6 1 1 5 2 6 3 4 4 
```

## Deep Dive
Historically, programmers would use the rand() function in C++, but it's not truly random, repeating its sequence every 32767 numbers. In modern C++, `<random>` library provides better tools, like `std::mt19937` generator that gives us a pretty good 'random' generator with period 2^19937-1. Large period and ability to produce numbers in the required range directly helps reduce pitfalls of traditional methods.

Another worthy mention is `std::random_device`. It's much more random than `std::mt19937`, but typically slower and could be non-random on some systems, so it's used to seed an `mt19937` generator.

Programmers can choose to generate random integers or floating-point numbers, vary the distribution, or even create custom distributions, based on their use case.

## See Also
Use these resources for more:
- Visit [CPP Reference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/numeric/random) for more details on `<random>`.
- Check out [this](https://www.cplusplus.com/reference/random/) for a detailed explanation on random number distributions in C++.

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/cpp/generating-random-numbers.md, after:

---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:48:33.155054-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "C++"
category:             "C++"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/cpp/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Random numbers are the bread and butter in simulations, games, testing, and security. They help make things unpredictable, simulating reality, or shaking up our code in ways that reveal its weaknesses or strengths.

## How to:

C++ has come a long way in random number generation. Gone are the days of `rand()` being your only quick fix. Now, we've got the `<random>` header which gives us a whole smorgasbord of randomness goodness.

```C++
#include <iostream>
#include <random>

int main() {
    // Initialize our mersenne twister with a random seed based on the system clock
    std::mt19937_64 rng(std::random_device{}());

    // Uniformly-distributed integer range from 1 to 6 (like a dice)
    std::uniform_int_distribution<std::mt19937_64::result_type> dist6(1, 6);

    // Generate and print a random number
    std::cout << "Random dice roll: " << dist6(rng) << std::endl;

    return 0;
}
```

Run the code and you'll get something like "Random dice roll: 4". Run it again, and who knows? That's the point.

## Deep Dive

Before `<random>`, `rand()` was all the rage. However, it was infamous for poor distribution and platform-specific quirks. With C++11, we got `<random>`, offering better algorithms and distributions.

Modern C++ lets us pick our pseudo-random number generator (PRNG). For example, `std::mt19937` is a Mersenne Twister - great for simulations and games, not so much for cryptography.

Other options? Plenty. `std::uniform_int_distribution` is for integers, while similar tools exist for different data types and distributions, like normal or binomial.

The beauty lies in seeding. `std::random_device` is often used to provide a non-deterministic seed, but if you want reproducible results, just hardcode a seed yourself.

Still, remember that if security is key, `<random>` isn't your best friend. That's when you turn to libraries designed for cryptography.

## See Also

- [cppreference.com](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/header/random) – Your go-to for details on the `<random>` library.
- [cryptography.io](https://cryptography.io/en/latest/) – A library for cryptographic tasks if `<random>` doesn’t cut it.
- [isocpp.org](https://isocpp.org/) — For the latest on what's happening in the world of C++.
