content/en/kotlin/extracting-substrings.md, before:

---
title:                "Extracting substrings"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Extracting substrings"
simple_title:         "Extracting substrings"
programming_language: "Kotlin"
category:             "Kotlin"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/kotlin/extracting-substrings.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Extracting Substrings in Kotlin

## What & Why?

Extracting substrings is about carving out a part of a string. It's key in situations where you need to manipulate or analyze segments of data rather than the whole string.

## How to:

In Kotlin, you extract substrings using the `substring()` method. Here's how:

```Kotlin
val str = "Kotlin is cool"
println(str.substring(7..10)) // "is"
```

So, what did we do here? Put simply, we defined a range (7..10) and Kotlin took care of the rest.

Another trick Kotlin has up its sleeve is the overloaded version of `substring()`. This version uses start and end indices, like so:

```Kotlin
val str = "Kotlin is cool"
println(str.substring(0, 6)) // "Kotlin"
```

This snippet tells Kotlin to start at 0 (the very beginning of our string), and cut out at 6.

## Deep Dive

Back in the day, String manipulations were cumbersome and prone to bugs. But, modern languages like Kotlin have simplified this.

And yes, there are alternatives to `substring()`. There's `substringBefore()`, `substringAfter()`, `substringBeforeLast()`, and `substringAfterLast()`. These take delimiters instead of indices and are handy for specific use cases. Just feed them a delimiter and they'll cut the string for you.

Finally, let's talk about implementation. Under the hood, `substring()` works by creating a new string that references the same char array as the original string but with different start and end indexes. This is an important detail if you're aiming for efficiency, because it means no extra memory allocation or copying of elements is involved. 

## See Also

To dive deeper into substrings in Kotlin, you should:
- Read up on [Efficient Java String Manipulations](https://javarevisited.blogspot.com/2013/01/how-substring-works-in-java-internals-string.html) (applicable to Kotlin!) for an understanding of how substrings are implemented for efficiency.

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/kotlin/extracting-substrings.md, after:

---
title:                "Extracting substrings"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:45:54.335545-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Extracting substrings"
programming_language: "Kotlin"
category:             "Kotlin"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/kotlin/extracting-substrings.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Extracting substrings means pulling out specific parts from a string. We do it to manipulate or analyze text data, like grabbing usernames from email addresses or slicing dates to get the month.

## How to:
In Kotlin, use `substring`, `take`, and `drop` functions.

```Kotlin
fun main() {
    val text = "Hello, Kotlin!"

    println(text.substring(7, 13)) // Prints "Kotlin"
    
    // From start
    println(text.take(5)) // Prints "Hello"

    // From end
    println(text.takeLast(6)) // Prints "Kotlin!"

    // Dropping chars
    println(text.drop(7)) // Prints "Kotlin!"
}
```

## Deep Dive
In the early days of programming, handling strings was manual and error-prone. In Kotlin, it's easier, safer, and less resource-intensive, thanks to built-in functions and String class features.

Alternatives to `substring` include using regular expressions with `Regex` or `split` to dice up strings—but these methods can be overkill for simple tasks.

Implementation-wise, remember that strings are immutable in Kotlin. So, when you extract a substring, you're actually creating a new String object, not changing the original.

## See Also
- Kotlin String documentation: [Kotlin Strings](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin/-string/)
- Regex in Kotlin for advanced string manipulation: [Kotlin Regex](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin.text/-regex/)
