content/en/kotlin/interpolating-a-string.md, before:

---
title:                "Interpolating a string"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Interpolating a string"
simple_title:         "Interpolating a string"
programming_language: "Kotlin"
category:             "Kotlin"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/kotlin/interpolating-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

String interpolation in Kotlin is a smooth way to insert variables directly into strings. This technique improves readability of the code and prevents mess-ups in concatenation.

## How to:

Let's jump straight in to the code to see string interpolation in action:

```Kotlin
fun main() {
    val name = "John"
    val greeting = "Hello, $name!"
    println(greeting) // Outputs: Hello, John!
}
```

Easy right? We can also use expressions within the interpolated strings. Surround the expression by curly braces: 

```Kotlin
fun main() {
    val apples = 5
    val oranges = 3
    println("I have ${apples + oranges} fruits.") // Outputs: I have 8 fruits.
}
```

## Deep Dive

String interpolation is not unique to Kotlin. It has long been in languages like Perl, Ruby, and more recently, JavaScript and Python.

While it seems simple, it has important implementation details. Variables are not converted directly to strings. The compiler transforms the code, wrapping variables or expressions inside a `toString()` call. This ensures correct display of the value, no matter its type.

One may wonder, "Could I just concatenate the strings instead?". Sure, you can, but interpolation is easier to read and less error-prone. 

## See Also

Read more about string templates in Kotlin [here](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/basic-syntax.html#string-templates). For a more comprehensive look at different approaches to string concatenation and their performance differences in Java (and by extension, Kotlin), [this article](http://www.pellegrino.link/2015/08/22/string-concatenation-with-java-8.html) does a great job.

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/kotlin/interpolating-a-string.md, after:

---
title:                "Interpolating a string"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:51:05.824126-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Interpolating a string"
programming_language: "Kotlin"
category:             "Kotlin"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/kotlin/interpolating-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
String interpolation lets you embed variables directly in strings. It's handy for creating dynamic, readable text without clunky concatenation.

## How to:
```kotlin
fun main() {
    val name = "Alex"
    val age = 29
    // Interpolate variables into the string
    val greeting = "Hello, my name is $name and I am $age years old."
    println(greeting) // Output: Hello, my name is Alex and I am 29 years old.

    // Expressions within strings
    val announcement = "Next year, I'll be ${age + 1}!"
    println(announcement) // Output: Next year, I'll be 30!
}
```

## Deep Dive
Kotlin, influenced by other modern languages, introduced string interpolation as a cleaner alternative to Java's string concatenation. It improves readability and simplifies code.

Historically, Java required verbose concatenation using `+`, which could be both hard to read and less efficient, as it created multiple string objects. Kotlin’s approach is more powerful, allowing not just variable embedding but also expression evaluation within strings.

Under the hood, Kotlin compiles this interpolation into `StringBuilder` operations or string concatenation, depending on the complexity, taking the burden off the developer. 

Alternatives to string interpolation include template engines for extensive text manipulation, but in code, interpolation is generally the quickest way to include dynamic content.

## See Also
- [Kotlin Documentation on String Templates](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/basic-syntax.html#string-templates)
- [Kotlin's `String` API](https://kotlinlang.org/api/latest/jvm/stdlib/kotlin/-string/)
- [Comparing Java and Kotlin String concatenation performance](https://proandroiddev.com/the-cost-of-kotlin-language-features-8f7035e9dcb9)
