content/en/kotlin/parsing-html.md, before:

---
title:                "Parsing html"
html_title:           "Kotlin recipe: Parsing html"
simple_title:         "Parsing html"
programming_language: "Kotlin"
category:             "Kotlin"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/kotlin/parsing-html.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Parsing HTML is the process of analyzing and extracting data from HTML code. Programmers use this method to gather and manipulate information from web pages. It is an essential technique for data scraping, web crawling, and web scraping.

## How to:

```Kotlin 
val doc = Jsoup.connect("https://www.example.com").get()
val title = doc.title() 
println("The website title is: $title")
```

The above code uses the Jsoup library to connect to a website and retrieve the HTML code. It then uses the "title()" function to extract the title tag from the code, which represents the webpage's title. Finally, the program prints out the title.

## Deep Dive:

Parsing HTML has been around since the early days of the internet, with the first HTML parser being developed in 1993. It has since become a widespread practice among programmers due to the growth of web technologies and the increasing demand for data-driven applications.

While HTML parsing can be done manually, using tools and libraries like Jsoup makes the process much more efficient and reliable. Other alternatives to HTML parsing include using Regular Expressions or building custom parsers from scratch, but these can be more time-consuming and error-prone compared to using specialized libraries.

Under the hood, HTML parsing involves converting the HTML code into a structured document object model (DOM) and then using this model to extract the desired data. It follows a set of rules defined by the HTML specification to ensure that the extracted data is accurate and in the correct format.

## See Also:

- [W3C HTML5 Specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/2017/REC-html52-20171214/)
- [Jsoup Library Documentation](https://jsoup.org/apidocs/)
- [Tutorial: How to Parse HTML in Kotlin](https://www.baeldung.com/kotlin-html-parsing)

Commit message:

content with gpt4 (#8)
* english python gleam and elixir

* Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/kotlin/parsing-html.md, after:

---
title:                "Parsing html"
html_title:           "Gleam recipe: Parsing html"
simple_title:         "Parsing html"
programming_language: "Kotlin"
category:             "Kotlin"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/kotlin/parsing-html.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Parsing HTML means dissecting text written in the HTML language into a structured format that your code can understand. We do this to extract the necessary parts of HTML code and use it in our applications.

## How to:
In Kotlin, we can use a library like Jsoup, which makes parsing simple. Here's a piece of code that downloads and parses a web page.

```Kotlin
import org.jsoup.Jsoup

fun main() {
    val doc = Jsoup.connect("http://example.com").get()
    val title = doc.title()
    println("Website title: $title")
}
```

Running this code will print the title of the web page:

```  
Website title: Example Domain
```

## Deep Dive
HTML parsing and Kotlin have evolved independently over the years. Earlier, parsing used to be a tedious process involving writing XML or DOM parsers. SDKs now provide libraries like Jsoup which simplifies parsing and manipulation of HTML.

An alternative to parsing HTML is to use APIs if available. However, in the absence of APIs or the need for web scraping, HTML parsing becomes necessary.

The Jsoup library works by reading the HTML into memory, understanding its hierarchy, and providing interfaces to access and modify the DOM. It is also capable of handling ill-formed HTML gracefully.

## See Also
Check out these sources for more information:

- [Jsoup Documentation](https://jsoup.org/)
- [Kotlin Documentation](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/home.html)
- [HTML Parsing and Web Scraping in Java Using Jsoup](https://www.baeldung.com/java-with-jsoup)
- [Web Scraping In Kotlin With Jsoup: A Comprehensive Guide](https://www.ubuntupit.com/web-scraping-in-kotlin-with-jsoup-a-comprehensive-guide/)
