content/en/fish-shell/capitalizing-a-string.md, before:

---
title:                "Capitalizing a string"
html_title:           "Fish Shell recipe: Capitalizing a string"
simple_title:         "Capitalizing a string"
programming_language: "Fish Shell"
category:             "Fish Shell"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/fish-shell/capitalizing-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Capitalizing a string means transforming every initial letter in a string to uppercase. Programmers do this for textual uniformity, readability or to meet specific coding standards.

## How to:

Fish, surprisingly elegant, has built-in functions for string manipulations. Check how to capitalize a string by utilizing `string upper`:

```fish
set string "the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog"
printf "%s" $string | string split " " | string upper | string join " " 
```

Output: 

```fish
THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPS OVER THE LAZY DOG
```
Voila! Each word in your string is now capitalized!

## Deep Dive

Historically, string capitalization has been handled in many different ways. Some languages (like JavaScript) have a direct method (toUppercase), others (like Python) use the capitalize function. 

In Fish, `string upper` is our go-to for capitalization, but there's an alternate, more cumbersome way: manually using ASCII values of letters. Also worth noting: Fish's `string upper` capitalizes every word in a string, and not just the initial character. 

The versatility of Fish's string manipulation functions demonstrates its power. In other scripting languages, achieving the same result might require verbose code or importing additional libraries.

## See Also

- Full documentation for Fish String functions: [https://fishshell.com/docs/current/cmds/string.html](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/cmds/string.html)
- ASCII Table for manual capitalization: [http://www.asciitable.com/](http://www.asciitable.com/)

Commit message:

redo string capitalization with gpt-4-turbo

content/en/fish-shell/capitalizing-a-string.md, after:

---
title:                "Capitalizing a string"
html_title:           "C recipe: Capitalizing a string"
simple_title:         "Capitalizing a string"
programming_language: "Fish Shell"
category:             "Fish Shell"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/fish-shell/capitalizing-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Capitalizing a string means turning all the characters into uppercase. Programmers do this for consistency, readability, or to meet certain coding standards.

## How to:
In Fish, you capitalize a string with the `string upper` command. Here's how you do it:

```Fish Shell
set lowercased "fish shell is fun"
set capitalized (string upper $lowercased)
echo $capitalized
```

Output:
```
FISH SHELL IS FUN
```

## Deep Dive
Historically, capitalizing strings has been used in programming for formatting outputs, storing data uniformly, and for case-insensitive comparisons. While Fish Shell is relatively young, its string manipulation functions draw inspiration from other Unix shells, delivering more readable syntax and convenience.

Key points in Fish's design philosophy include being user-friendly and providing functions that do what you'd expect, hence the straightforward `string upper` command. Earlier shells would require you to pipe echo commands to `tr` or use the likes of `awk` for such an operation, which can be less intuitive for casual users.

Alternatives include using `awk`:
```Fish Shell
echo "fish shell is fun" | awk '{print toupper($0)}'
```

Or `tr`:
```Fish Shell
echo "fish shell is fun" | tr '[:lower:]' '[:upper:]'
```

Despite these alternatives, `string upper` in Fish is clear and to the point, avoiding Unix's historical baggage of cryptic command options and syntax. Capitalizing a string in Fish doesn't change the original string unless you explicitly reassign it, which protects your data from accidental mutations.

## See Also
- Fish documentation on string manipulation: [fishshell.com/docs/current/cmds/string.html](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/cmds/string.html)
- A brief history of Unix text-processing tools: [Unix Text Processing (O'Reilly)](http://www.oreilly.com)
- A guide to string manipulation in Unix shells for comparison: [Greg's Wiki (mywiki.wooledge.org)](http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashFAQ/099)
