content/en/fish-shell/extracting-substrings.md, before:

---
title:                "Extracting substrings"
html_title:           "Fish Shell recipe: Extracting substrings"
simple_title:         "Extracting substrings"
programming_language: "Fish Shell"
category:             "Fish Shell"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/fish-shell/extracting-substrings.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

 Sometimes, when writing code, you need to extract a specific part of a larger string. This is called "extracting substrings" and it is a common task for programmers. It allows you to manipulate and use smaller sections of a string instead of the entire thing.

## How to:

To extract substrings with the Fish Shell, use the `string sub -s index -l length` command. The `-s` flag specifies the starting index and the `-l` flag specifies the length of the substring. Here's an example:

```
Fish Shell > set my_string "hello world"
Fish Shell > string sub -s 0 -l 5 $my_string
hello
```

This will extract the first five characters of the string "hello world" and output it as "hello".

You can also combine the `-s` and `-l` flags to extract specific parts of a string. For example, if you wanted to extract the word "world" from "hello world", you would use the command `string sub -s 6 -l 5 $my_string`.

## Deep Dive:

Extracting substrings has been a common task since the early days of programming. It provides a way to work with smaller, more manageable pieces of data. While you can still extract substrings with other programming languages like Python or JavaScript, using a shell like Fish can make it quicker and easier.

There are also other ways to extract substrings with Fish Shell. You can use regular expressions with the `string sub -r regex` command, or use specialized functions such as `string trim` to remove certain characters from the string before extracting the substring.

## See Also:

- [Official Fish Shell Documentation](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/cmds/string.html)
- [Fish Shell Regular Expressions Tutorial](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/tutorial.html?doc=refextract.html#refextract)
- [Fish Shell Function Reference](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/commands.html#appendix-function-summary)

Commit message:

content with gpt4 (#8)
* english python gleam and elixir

* Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/fish-shell/extracting-substrings.md, after:

---
title:                "Extracting substrings"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Extracting substrings"
simple_title:         "Extracting substrings"
programming_language: "Fish Shell"
category:             "Fish Shell"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/fish-shell/extracting-substrings.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Extracting substrings means fetching specific parts of a string, based on start and end positions or patterns. We do it to manipulate and derive pertinent data from more extensive text information.

## How to:
Let's dive into examples in Fish Shell. 
Say we have a string `greet` with the value "Hello, welcome to Fish Shell tutorial!".

Define the string:
```Fish Shell
set greet "Hello, welcome to Fish Shell tutorial!"
```

Extract the substring "welcome to Fish Shell" using the classic `string sub`:
```Fish Shell
string sub -s 8 -l 23 -- $greet
```
Output:
```Fish Shell
welcome to Fish Shell
```

## Deep Dive
Historically, Fish Shell has borrowed techniques for string manipulations from legacy Unix tools, spawning a healthier and more modern alternative. 

Alternatives like native POSIX string manipulations in bash or zsh can often involve complex, convoluted syntax. In comparison, Fish strives for user-friendliness, providing a dedicated `string` built-in command with a range of sub-commands, including our focus `sub`.

Under the hood, the `string sub` operates by considering strings as arrays of characters. It takes a start index `-s` and a length `-l` to extract the required substring. Bear in mind, Fish Shell's indices are 1-based, unlike 0-based as in many other languages.

## See Also
Get more grip on Fish Shell Strings:
1. [Official Fish Documentation on Strings](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/cmds/string.html)
2. [Fish Shell String Operations](https://www.baeldung.com/linux/fish-shell-string-operations)
3. [Getting Started with Fish Shell](https://opensource.com/article/19/11/getting-started-fish-shell)
