---
title:    "Fish Shell recipe: Generating random numbers"
keywords: ["Fish Shell"]
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

Generating random numbers is an important and commonly used function in programming. It allows for the creation of unpredictable data, which is essential for tasks such as creating randomized simulations, generating secure encryption keys, and implementing randomized algorithms. In this blog post, we will explore how to generate random numbers using the Fish Shell programming language.

## How To

Fish Shell has a built-in function for generating random numbers called `fish_rand`. This function takes in a single argument, which specifies the desired range of the random numbers. Let's take a look at an example:

```
Fish Shell
$ fish_rand 10
> 3
```

In the code block above, we specified the range of the random numbers to be from 0 to 10. The output of the `fish_rand` function is a random number within that range. We can also specify a specific starting point for the range, as shown below:

```
Fish Shell
$ fish_rand 5 10
> 7
```

This code will generate a random number between 5 and 10. Additionally, we can use a variable to store the output of the `fish_rand` function, as seen in the example below:

```
Fish Shell
$ set random_num (fish_rand 100)
$ echo $random_num
> 85
```

In this code, we used the `set` command to save the output of `fish_rand` in the variable `random_num`. We then used the `echo` command to print out the value of the variable, which is the randomly generated number.

## Deep Dive

Behind the scenes, the `fish_rand` function uses the `random` library of the Fish Shell. This library is based on the Mersenne Twister algorithm, which is a pseudorandom number generator known for its strong statistical properties. This means that the random numbers generated by the Fish Shell have a very low chance of being predictable or repeating.

It is also worth noting that the `fish_rand` function produces integer values, but Fish Shell also has a `fish_rand_float` function for generating random decimal numbers. Additionally, Fish Shell allows for the setting of a specific seed for the random number generator, which can be useful for creating reproducible results.

## See Also

- [Fish Shell documentation on random numbers](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/index.html#random)
- [Mersenne Twister algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mersenne_Twister)