content/en/fish-shell/generating-random-numbers.md, before:

---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Generating random numbers"
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Fish Shell"
category:             "Fish Shell"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/fish-shell/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Generating random numbers involves creating number sequences that lack any pattern. Programmers use this for tasks like creating unique identifiers, simulating unpredictable behaviour and enhancing security in applications.

## How to:
In Fish shell, generating a random number is simple. Use the built-in `random` function that has an optional range feature.

```fish
# Generate a random number between 1 and 10
random 1 10
```
This could output:
```
7
```
A random number between 1 and 10.

For a series of random numbers collectively, loop can be used:
```fish
# Generate 5 random numbers between 1 and 100
for i in (seq 5); random 1 100; end
```
This could output:
```
13
86
22
45
89
```
Each number is randomly chosen from the range of 1 to 100.

## Deep Dive
Historically, Random number generation in computing evolved from generating pseudo-random numbers where algorithms produce sequences that are statistically random. Fish Shell's `random` command, however, actually uses a cryptographic library to provide more true randomness.

Two alternatives are:
1. Pseudo-random number generator (PRNG) libraries or code snippets.
2. Using an external command-line random number generator like `shuf`.

Fish's `random` implementation works by transforming a uniformly distributed random value into a set range defined by the arguments passed. It's useful, fast, and since it's a native function of the shell, it doesn't require installing extra tools or libraries.

## See Also
For more details on how Fish shell `random` works, you can check out the official documentation here: [Fish Shell Documentation](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/commands.html#random).
For a deeper dive into random number generation, Wikipedia article is a good place to start: [Random number generation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Random_number_generation).

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/fish-shell/generating-random-numbers.md, after:

---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:48:48.973634-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Fish Shell"
category:             "Fish Shell"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/fish-shell/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Generating random numbers is creating numbers that cannot be reasonably predicted. Programmers use them for tasks like security protocols, games, simulations, or anything that needs unpredictability.

## How to:
In Fish, you can generate random numbers easily:

```Fish Shell
# Generate a random number between 1 and 10
set -l rand_num (random 1 10)
echo $rand_num
```

Sample output could be: `7`

To get a series of random numbers:

```Fish Shell
# Generate 5 random numbers between 1 and 100
for i in (seq 5)
    echo (random 1 100)
end
```

Sample output might be:

```
84
22
67
99
30
```

## Deep Dive
Fish Shell's random number generator has a simple interface but an intricate underlying mechanism. Before Fish Shell 3.0, random functionality was notable for lacking compared to other shells, prompting scripts to leverage external utilities like `awk`.

Today's `random` is a built-in and relies on pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs), which are algorithms that produce sequences of numbers approximating randomness. Despite their deterministic nature, for most purposes, the numbers are "random enough".

Alternatives to `random` include calling external commands like `shuf`, `awk`, or using the `$RANDOM` environment variable in bash for scripts that need to remain cross-shell.

Regarding cryptographic security, you shouldn't use Fish's `random` for that. Instead, use a language or tool designed with cryptography in mind, like OpenSSL. Fish's `random` is more about convenience and quick, simple use cases that don't require cryptographically secure randomness.

## See Also
- [Fish Shell Documentation on `random`](https://fishshell.com/docs/current/cmds/random.html)
- [OpenSSL Random Numbers Generation](https://www.openssl.org/)
- [Wikipedia article on Pseudorandom Number Generators](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudorandom_number_generator)
