content/en/rust/finding-the-length-of-a-string.md, before:

---
title:                "Finding the length of a string"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Finding the length of a string"
simple_title:         "Finding the length of a string"
programming_language: "Rust"
category:             "Rust"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/rust/finding-the-length-of-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Finding the length of a string in programming is getting the count of characters within a string. Programmers do it when they need to manipulate, validate, or analyze texts efficiently and accurately.

## How to:

```Rust
fn main() {
    let my_str = "Hello, Rust!";
    println!("Length: {}", my_str.len());
}
```
Output:
```
Length: 12
```
The method `len()` is native to the data type String in Rust. It allows you to get the number of bytes in a string quickly.

## Deep Dive

Rust's `len()` function, introduced from its first stable release in 2015, returns the length in bytes, not the count of Unicode grapheme clusters. In other words, it might not always exactly match what we visually perceive as characters, especially with multi-byte characters.

Alternatives methods to `len()` exist, like the `.chars().count()` function. This method counts Unicode Scalar Values (i.e., a single Unicode character, excluding "surrogate" characters).

```Rust
fn main() {
    let my_str = "こんにちは";
    println!("Length: {}", my_str.chars().count());
}
```
Output:
```
Length: 5
```
When dealing with non-Latin string inputs, using 'chars().count()' can be more practical.

The length returned by `len()` is in O(1) time complexity operation because Rust's string is implemented as a Vector of Bytes, which inherently knows its length. Conversely, `.chars().count()`, being an iterator, has to traverse all characters, making it an O(N) operation.

## See Also

- Rust's String documentation: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/string/struct.String.html.
- Rust's `len()` usage: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/string/struct.String.html#method.len.
- Unicode Scalar Values in Rust: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/char/index.html.

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/rust/finding-the-length-of-a-string.md, after:

---
title:                "Finding the length of a string"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:48:16.602904-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Finding the length of a string"
programming_language: "Rust"
category:             "Rust"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/rust/finding-the-length-of-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Finding the length of a string means counting the number of characters it contains. Programmers do this to validate, format, or process text data efficiently.

## How to:
Rust gives you `len()` for straight-up length:

```Rust
fn main() {
    let greeting = "Hello, world!";
    println!("Length: {}", greeting.len());
}
```

Output: `Length: 13`

But beware, `len()` counts bytes, not characters. For character count, use `.chars().count()`:

```Rust
fn main() {
    let greeting = "¡Hola, mundo!";
    println!("Character count: {}", greeting.chars().count());
}
```

Output: `Character count: 12`

## Deep Dive
`len()` counts bytes because Rust strings are UTF-8 encoded. Historically, early computers used ASCII, representing each character with a single byte. UTF-8, however, supports a vast array of characters, using 1 to 4 bytes each. 

When you call `len()`, Rust counts the bytes in a string, which is fast but won't always match the character count. For instance, emojis or certain accented characters take more than one byte. That's why `.chars().count()` matters—it iterates over the characters and gives the Unicode scalar value count, which is the actual character count most people expect.

As for alternatives, `.chars().count()` is accurate but slow for long strings because it has to iterate through each character. If performance is critical, and you're sure about dealing with ASCII or fixed-width Unicode characters, `len()` is more efficient.

Lastly, remember Rust's string indexing doesn't allow direct access by character position because of how UTF-8 encoding works. Rust prevents operations that could accidentally break or slice strings at invalid points, which might not represent full characters.

## See Also
- Rust's official string documentation: [https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/string/](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/string/)
- The Rust Book on strings: [https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch08-02-strings.html](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch08-02-strings.html)
- To understand UTF-8 vs ASCII further, check out [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3629](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3629)
