---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
html_title:           "Rust recipe: Generating random numbers"
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Rust"
category:             "Rust"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/rust/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

Are you tired of using the same set of numbers every time you need random input for your coding projects? Look no further! With Rust's built-in function for generating random numbers, you can easily add an element of surprise and unpredictability to your code.

## How To

To use the random number generator in Rust, you will need to include the `rand` crate in your project's dependencies. Here's how you can do that in your `Cargo.toml` file:

```Rust
[dependencies]
rand = "0.7.3"
```

Next, import the crate into your Rust code using the `use` keyword:

```Rust
use rand::Rng;
```

Now you can generate random numbers using the `thread_rng()` and `gen_range()` methods. For example, if you want a random number between 1 and 100, you can do the following:

```Rust
let num = rand::thread_rng().gen_range(1..=100);
println!("{}", num); // print the randomly generated number
```

Sample output:

```
59
```

You can also generate random numbers with a specified data type, such as `u32` or `f64`:

```Rust
let num: u32 = rand::thread_rng().gen_range(1..=10);
println!("{}", num); // print the randomly generated u32 integer
```

Sample output:

```
8
```

## Deep Dive

Rust's random number generator is based on the Mersenne Twister algorithm, a pseudorandom number generator that has a long period and good statistical properties. The `thread_rng()` method creates a new random number generator for the current thread, while the `gen_range()` method uses this generator to produce a random number within a specified range.

It is important to note that while the numbers generated by Rust's random number generator may seem random, they are actually pseudorandom, meaning that they follow a deterministic algorithm. This is why it is often referred to as a "pseudorandom number generator" (PRNG). If you need truly random numbers, you will need to use a source of entropy, such as user input or an external source, to seed your random number generator.

Additionally, Rust's random number generator is not thread-safe, so it is recommended to create a new generator for each thread rather than sharing one amongst multiple threads.

## See Also

For more information on Rust's random number generator, check out the official documentation and the source code on GitHub:

- [Rust official documentation on rand](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rand/index.html)
- [Source code for rand on GitHub](https://github.com/rust-random/rand)

Happy coding!