content/en/rust/interpolating-a-string.md, before:

---
title:                "Interpolating a string"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Interpolating a string"
simple_title:         "Interpolating a string"
programming_language: "Rust"
category:             "Rust"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/rust/interpolating-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

String interpolation is the process of embedding variables into a string. This is typically performed to create more dynamic and flexible strings.

## How to:

String interpolation in Rust is achieved through the `format!`macro. Let's take a look at how it's done:

```Rust
let name = "John";
let age = 30;
let result = format!("{} is {} years old.", name, age);
println!("{}", result);
```

When you run this, the output would be:
```
John is 30 years old.
```

## Deep Dive

String interpolation originated from the scripting languages back in the '80s, primarily to simplify the process of combining strings and variables. Rust, however, favors explicit type formatting over implicit (like `"${variable}"` in some languages).

As an alternative to `format!`, Rust also offers the `println!`macro for output (e.g., `println!("{} is {} years old.", name, age);`).

The key point in Rust's implementation is the type safety - variables must be explicitly converted to strings. This avoids errors caused by unexpected types.

## See Also

For further reading, here are a couple helpful links:

1. [Rust's `format!` macro documentation](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/macro.format.html)

2. [String Interpolation in Rust](https://www.programming-idioms.org/idiom/70/interpolate-variables-in-string/1047/rust)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/rust/interpolating-a-string.md, after:

---
title:                "Interpolating a string"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:51:29.618497-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Interpolating a string"
programming_language: "Rust"
category:             "Rust"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/rust/interpolating-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

String interpolation inserts variables right into strings. It makes building strings smooth and readable, avoiding clunky concatenations.

## How to:

In Rust, we use the `format!` macro:

```Rust
fn main() {
    let name = "Ferris";
    let greeting = format!("Hello, {}!", name);
    println!("{}", greeting); // Prints "Hello, Ferris!"
}
```
The `format!` macro works like `println!`, but it returns the formatted string instead of printing it.

## Deep Dive

Rust chose macros like `format!` for string interpolation over in-language syntax. Why? Macros are powerful and flexible—extending language functionality without complex syntax.

Historically, languages like C used functions like `sprintf`, clunky and error-prone. Rust's `format!` macro is safer, preventing common mistakes.

Alternatives exist, like concatenating with `+` or the `format_args!` macro for avoiding heap allocation. But when it comes to ease and clarity, `format!` is king.

Performance note: `format!` allocates memory. For performance-critical code, consider other methods, like writing directly to a buffer.

## See Also

- Official Rust docs on `format!`: https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/macro.format.html
- `format!` versus `println!`: https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch01-02-hello-world.html
- Rust by Example on formatting: https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/hello/print/print_display.html
