content/en/rust/reading-command-line-arguments.md, before:

---
title:                "Reading command line arguments"
html_title:           "Rust recipe: Reading command line arguments"
simple_title:         "Reading command line arguments"
programming_language: "Rust"
category:             "Rust"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/rust/reading-command-line-arguments.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Reading command line arguments is the process of accepting user inputs from the command line when running a program. This is a common practice among programmers to enable their programs to be customizable and dynamic based on user input.

## How to:

To read command line arguments in Rust, we can use the ```args()``` function from the ```std::env``` module. This function returns an iterator that provides the command line arguments as strings. We can then iterate through the arguments and perform any necessary operations.

Example:

```
use std::env;

fn main() {
    let arguments: Vec<String> = env::args().collect();
    for argument in arguments {
        println!("{}", argument); // prints out each command line argument
    }
}
```

Sample output:

```
> rustc main.rs
> ./main hello world 123
./main
hello
world
123
```

## Deep Dive:

Command line arguments have been used since the early days of computer programming, where they were necessary for running programs on command-line-only operating systems. In modern programming, command line arguments are still used for the same reasons, but they have also been replaced by more user-friendly graphical user interfaces in many cases.

An alternative to reading command line arguments in Rust is the ```clap``` crate, which provides a more robust and structured way of handling command line arguments. However, for simple programs, using the ```args()``` function should suffice.

It is worth noting that command line arguments are not limited to strings, but can be any data type that can be parsed from a string. For example, using the ```parse()``` method on a string, we can convert it to a desired data type such as integer or float.

## See Also:

- [The Rust Standard Library](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/#command-line-arguments)
- [The clap crate](https://docs.rs/clap/2.33.1/clap/): Alternative for handling command line arguments in Rust

Commit message:

content with gpt4 (#8)
* english python gleam and elixir

* Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/rust/reading-command-line-arguments.md, after:

---
title:                "Reading command line arguments"
html_title:           "C++ recipe: Reading command line arguments"
simple_title:         "Reading command line arguments"
programming_language: "Rust"
category:             "Rust"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/rust/reading-command-line-arguments.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Command line arguments are inputs given at the runtime of a program. Programmers use them because they allow the user to control the program's behaviour without changing its source code.

## How to:
In Rust, we can access command line arguments by using the `std::env::args()` function. This function returns an iterator over the arguments that were supplied to the program at runtime.

Here's a quick example:

```rust
fn main() {
    for argument in std::env::args() {
        println!("{}", argument);
    }
}
```

Running this program with `rustc main.rs && ./main arg1 arg2 arg3` will yield:

```
./main
arg1
arg2
arg3
```

## Deep Dive
Historically, command line arguments became popular due to the widespread usage of Unix-based systems. They're a common way of parameterizing the execution of programs in many programming languages.

The `std::env::args()` function is the most common way to read command line arguments in Rust. There are, however, alternative ways to do this. For instance, `std::env::args_os()` allows retaining the original platform-specific encoding.

Command line arguments are stored in the environment of the process and are typically passed as an array of strings to the main function. It's important to note that Rust returns these arguments as an `Args` struct implementing `Iterator<Item=String>`, which means you can take advantage of the methods provided by the Iterator trait.

## See Also
- [The Command Line Arguments section of The Rust Programming Language](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch12-01-accepting-command-line-arguments.html)
- [std::env::args function](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/env/fn.args.html)
- [std::env::args_os function](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/env/fn.args_os.html)
