content/en/dart/testing-and-debugging/printing-debug-output.md, before:

---
title:                "Printing debug output"
date:                  2024-03-08T21:33:33.906560-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-0125-preview
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Printing debug output in Dart is about displaying information to the console during runtime, allowing developers to track the flow of execution, investigate the state of variables, or identify the source of errors. Programmers commonly use it for troubleshooting and verifying that their code behaves as expected, facilitating a smoother and more efficient development process.

## How to:

In Dart, you can print debug output using the `print()` function. Here's how to output simple messages and variable values:

```dart
void main() {
  String greeting = "Hello, Dart!";
  print(greeting); // Prints: Hello, Dart!

  int number = 42;
  print('The number is $number.'); // Prints: The number is 42.
}
```

For structured data, like lists or objects, Dart's `toString()` method may not provide enough detail. In those cases, you can use the `jsonEncode` function from Dart's `dart:convert` library to convert the data to a JSON string for more readable output:

```dart
import 'dart:convert';

void main() {
  var user = {
    'name': 'John Doe',
    'age': 30,
    'emails': ['john.doe@example.com', 'john@example.com'],
  };

  print(jsonEncode(user));
  // Prints: {"name":"John Doe","age":30,"emails":["john.doe@example.com","john@example.com"]}
}
```

When more sophisticated debugging capabilities are needed, such as logging with different levels of importance (info, warning, error), you can use third-party libraries like `logger`. Here's how to use it:

1. Add `logger` to your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  logger: ^1.0.0
```

2. Use `logger` in your Dart code:

```dart
import 'package:logger/logger.dart';

var logger = Logger();

void main() {
  logger.d("This is a debug message");
  logger.w("This is a warning message");
  logger.e("This is an error message");
}
```

The output will be more informative, showing the level of the message and the message itself, making it easier to distinguish between different kinds of log messages.

Commit message:

Add description to dart articles

content/en/dart/testing-and-debugging/printing-debug-output.md, after:

---
date: 2024-03-08 21:33:33.906560-07:00
description: "Printing debug output in Dart is about displaying information to the\
  \ console during runtime, allowing developers to track the flow of execution,\u2026"
lastmod: '2024-03-09T21:06:23.359137-07:00'
model: gpt-4-0125-preview
summary: "Printing debug output in Dart is about displaying information to the console\
  \ during runtime, allowing developers to track the flow of execution,\u2026"
title: Printing debug output
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Printing debug output in Dart is about displaying information to the console during runtime, allowing developers to track the flow of execution, investigate the state of variables, or identify the source of errors. Programmers commonly use it for troubleshooting and verifying that their code behaves as expected, facilitating a smoother and more efficient development process.

## How to:

In Dart, you can print debug output using the `print()` function. Here's how to output simple messages and variable values:

```dart
void main() {
  String greeting = "Hello, Dart!";
  print(greeting); // Prints: Hello, Dart!

  int number = 42;
  print('The number is $number.'); // Prints: The number is 42.
}
```

For structured data, like lists or objects, Dart's `toString()` method may not provide enough detail. In those cases, you can use the `jsonEncode` function from Dart's `dart:convert` library to convert the data to a JSON string for more readable output:

```dart
import 'dart:convert';

void main() {
  var user = {
    'name': 'John Doe',
    'age': 30,
    'emails': ['john.doe@example.com', 'john@example.com'],
  };

  print(jsonEncode(user));
  // Prints: {"name":"John Doe","age":30,"emails":["john.doe@example.com","john@example.com"]}
}
```

When more sophisticated debugging capabilities are needed, such as logging with different levels of importance (info, warning, error), you can use third-party libraries like `logger`. Here's how to use it:

1. Add `logger` to your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  logger: ^1.0.0
```

2. Use `logger` in your Dart code:

```dart
import 'package:logger/logger.dart';

var logger = Logger();

void main() {
  logger.d("This is a debug message");
  logger.w("This is a warning message");
  logger.e("This is an error message");
}
```

The output will be more informative, showing the level of the message and the message itself, making it easier to distinguish between different kinds of log messages.
