content/en/java/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, before:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
html_title:           "Java recipe: Deleting characters matching a pattern"
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "Java"
category:             "Java"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/java/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# What & Why?
Deleting characters matching a pattern is a way to remove specific characters from a string or text that match a given pattern. Programmers often do this to manipulate data or to apply certain formatting to the text, such as removing all punctuation or replacing certain letters with symbols.

# How to:
To delete characters matching a pattern, we can use the ```replaceAll()``` method in Java. This method takes two parameters: the pattern to match and the replacement text. Here is an example of removing all numbers from a string:

```Java
String text = "This is 123 a string 456 with numbers."; 
text = text.replaceAll("[0-9]", ""); // replacing all numbers with empty string
System.out.println(text);

// output: This is a string with numbers.
```

## Deep Dive:
- **Historical Context:** The ```replaceAll()``` method was introduced in Java 1.4. It was an improvement from the ```replace()``` method, which could only replace a single character or string.
- **Alternatives:** Other programming languages have similar methods for deleting characters, such as ```replace()``` in Python and ```str_replace()``` in PHP. Regex (regular expressions) can also be used for more complex pattern matching.
- **Implementation Details:** The ```replaceAll()``` method uses regular expressions to find and replace the matching characters. It follows the standard regex syntax, which may differ slightly in other programming languages.

## See Also:
- Oracle's documentation on [replaceAll() method](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/String.html#replaceAll(java.lang.String,%20java.lang.String))
- [Regular-Expressions.info](https://www.regular-expressions.info/) for learning more about regex syntax
- [W3Schools Java Strings](https://www.w3schools.com/java/java_strings.asp) for more string manipulation techniques in Java.

Commit message:

content with gpt4 (#8)
* english python gleam and elixir

* Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/java/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, after:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
html_title:           "Lua recipe: Deleting characters matching a pattern"
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "Java"
category:             "Java"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/java/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why? 
Deleting characters that match a pattern in Java is a process in which specific characters from a String are removed based on a defined set of rules. Programmers do this to modify and refine data, conforming to data rules or user requirements.

## How To?

In Java, you can utilize the `replaceAll()` method along with regular expressions (regex) to delete characters that match a pattern. Here's an example:

```Java
public class DeleteCharacter {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        String hello = "H.e.l.l.o...W.o.r.l.d...";

        String cleanText = hello.replaceAll("\\.", "");

        System.out.println(cleanText);
    }
}
```
In this case, the output will be "HelloWorld". Here `replaceAll("\\.", "")` removes all periods from the string. 

## Deep Dive

The technique of deleting characters from a string using patterns has its roots in the broader concept of pattern matching, and it is widespread in computer science and programming from very early on. 

Alternatives to the `replaceAll()` method are using the `replace()` method if you have a fixed pattern to replace or using `StringUtils` from Apache Commons Lang library.

Inside Java, `replaceAll()` constructs a new String by replacing all the matches of the `regex` in the existing string. It uses `Pattern` and `Matcher` classes under the hood.

## See Also

Refer to Java's official documentation for more on [replaceAll()](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/lang/String.html#replaceAll(java.lang.String,%20java.lang.String)) or [Pattern class](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html). For more on StringUtils, check out [Apache Commons Lang library](https://commons.apache.org/proper/commons-lang/javadocs/api-release/org/apache/commons/lang3/StringUtils.html).
