---
title:                "Java recipe: Generating random numbers"
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Java"
category:             "Java"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/java/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

##Why

Generating random numbers is a common task in many programming languages, including Java. It allows for randomness in a program, which can be useful for a variety of purposes such as creating randomized game levels, implementing randomized algorithms, and generating random test data. Random numbers also add an element of unpredictability and excitement to programs.

##How To

To generate random numbers in Java, we can use the `Random` class from the `java.util` package. This class has methods such as `nextDouble()`, `nextInt()`, and `nextLong()` which can be used to generate random numbers of different types. Let's take a look at some code examples:

```java
//Generate a random double between 0 and 1
Random random = new Random();
double randomDouble = random.nextDouble();
System.out.println(randomDouble); //output: 0.98745612

//Generate a random integer between 1 and 10
int randomInt = random.nextInt(10) + 1;
System.out.println(randomInt); //output: 7

//Generate a random long between 10000 and 20000
long randomLong = (long) (random.nextDouble() * 10000 + 10000);
System.out.println(randomLong); //output: 14325
```

As you can see, we first create an instance of the `Random` class and then use its methods to generate random numbers. We can also specify a range for the random numbers by using the `nextInt()` and `nextLong()` methods with a parameter representing the maximum value. By adding 1 to the result of `nextInt()`, we can generate a random number within a specific range.

##Deep Dive

Behind the scenes, the `Random` class uses a mathematical algorithm to generate random numbers. This algorithm is known as a pseudorandom number generator (PRNG). It uses a seed value to start the sequence of numbers and then generates a new number based on the previous one. However, because the seed value is predetermined, the same sequence of random numbers will be generated every time the program is run. To avoid this, we can provide a seed value to the `Random` class or use the `System.currentTimeMillis()` method as the seed, which will change every time the program is run.

It is also worth noting that the random numbers generated by the `Random` class are not truly random but rather pseudorandom. This means that they appear to be random but are actually determined by the algorithm used.

##See Also

For more information on generating random numbers in Java, check out these resources:

- [Java Random class documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Random.html)
- [Java Math class documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/Math.html)
- [Oracle tutorial on generating random numbers](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/random.html)