content/en/java/printing-debug-output.md, before:

---
title:                "Printing debug output"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Printing debug output"
simple_title:         "Printing debug output"
programming_language: "Java"
category:             "Java"
tag:                  "Testing and Debugging"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/java/printing-debug-output.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Printing debug output is the act of sending text data or messages from the running code to a console. It helps programmers identify and fix bugs by providing a snapshot of how variables and conditions change state during the program execution.

## How To:

Printing debug output in Java is straightforward. You can use `System.out.println()` or `System.err.println()`. Here's a simple example:

```Java
public class DebugExample {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        String name = "John Doe";
        int age = 45;
        
        // Debug output
        System.out.println("Debug info: Name is " + name + ", Age is " + age);
    }
}
```
When you run this code, you see the following output on your console.

```Java
Debug info: Name is John Doe, Age is 45
```
In this way, you can print debug outputs to trace your code's execution in Java.

## Deep Dive

Historically, debug output was used in various programming languages to track and fix bugs during the development phase. In Java, `System.out.println()` acts as a simple tool to trace your code. However, this approach can become cumbersome with larger codebases. 

Alternatives include using Java's built-in logging API (`java.util.logging`) or third-party libraries like Apache Log4j, SLF4J, or Logback. These provide better control over where your log messages go, how they look, and under what conditions they're printed.

A significant difference exists between `System.out.println()` and `System.err.println()` in the way they handle output. The former routes to "standard output" (usually a console) and is buffered. That means the output may not immediately appear on the console. On the other hand, `System.err.println()` is unbuffered and routes to "standard error", making the output immediately visible. 

## See Also

For further reading, consider these sources:

- [Introduction to the Java Logging API](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/logging/overview.html)
- [Apache Log4j Manual](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/index.html)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/java/printing-debug-output.md, after:

---
title:                "Printing debug output"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:52:49.178700-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Printing debug output"
programming_language: "Java"
category:             "Java"
tag:                  "Testing and Debugging"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/java/printing-debug-output.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Printing debug output is tossing little bread crumbs of information into the console to track down bugs. It's quick, dirty, and effective for understanding what's happening inside your code when it's running wild.

## How to:
Let’s get some code on the screen:

```java
public class DebugExample {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        int sum = 0;
        for (int i = 1; i <= 10; i++) {
            sum += i;
            System.out.println("Added " + i + ", sum now: " + sum);
        }
    }
}
```

This snippet sums numbers from 1 to 10 and prints progress:

```
Added 1, sum now: 1
Added 2, sum now: 3
...
Added 10, sum now: 55
```

## Deep Dive
Back before IDEs got smart, printf-style debugging was the go-to. Even now, amidst fancy breakpoints, sometimes a well-placed `System.out.println()` is all you need to align the planets.

Alternatives? Logging frameworks like Log4J or SLF4J give you control over debug info, separating it from system output and letting you toggle verbosity.

Implementation-wise, remember that `System.out` is a `PrintStream` object, defaulting to stdout. It can be replaced to redirect output, making testing or logging less intrusive.

## See Also
- [Oracle’s Tutorial on I/O Streams](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/essential/io/streams.html)
- [Best Practices for Logging in Java](https://www.baeldung.com/java-logging-intro)
- [SLF4J Documentation](http://www.slf4j.org/docs.html)
