content/en/haskell/converting-a-date-into-a-string.md, before:

---
title:                "Converting a date into a string"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Converting a date into a string"
simple_title:         "Converting a date into a string"
programming_language: "Haskell"
category:             "Haskell"
tag:                  "Dates and Times"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/haskell/converting-a-date-into-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# The Haskell Date-to-String Express: Making Dates Chatty

## What & Why?

Converting a date into a string in Haskell means turning a date object into a format we humans can easily read. It's done to display dates on screens, in logs, serialize them for storage, or even when debugging your code.

## How to:

Let's make things practical. Here's how to convert a date object to a string in Haskell:

```Haskell
import Data.Time

main :: IO ()
main = do
  currentTime <- getCurrentTime
  print currentTime
  putStrLn $ formatTime defaultTimeLocale "%B %e, %Y" currentTime
```

Run it, and you'll see:

```Shell
2022-03-28 14:20:00 UTC
March 28, 2022
```

Here we use `getCurrentTime`, a function from the `Data.Time` package that gets the current date and time. Then `formatTime` is used with `defaultTimeLocale` to format this date-time value into a more legible one: Month Day, Year". 

## Deep Dive

Historically, Haskell didn't have a robust library for working with dates and times, and developers had to resort to using plugins with the C language or work around it with complex, difficult-to-maintain code.

Fortunately, the situation has improved. We're lucky to have the `Data.Time` library, seen above, which makes handling time in Haskell a lot simpler. 

Meanwhile, more options are available. There's the `thyme` package, if `Data.Time` feels too heavy, or `time-lens` for those preferring a lens-like syntax. 

Lastly, about implementing the conversion ourselves: Honestly, save your time. Use a library. It's (mostly) about code reuse. Besides, date and time handling is a complex subject often underestimated, and the established libraries have had much effort invested into testing, debugging, and making things time-zone-safe.

## See Also

Get started with more time in Haskell:

- [The Data.Time Package Hackage](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/time-1.9.3/docs/Data-Time.html)
- [The Thyme Package](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/thyme)
- [The Time-lens Package](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/time-lens)

Remember, exploring is the key to mastery. Happy coding!

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/haskell/converting-a-date-into-a-string.md, after:

---
title:                "Converting a date into a string"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:36:55.678499-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Converting a date into a string"
programming_language: "Haskell"
category:             "Haskell"
tag:                  "Dates and Times"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/haskell/converting-a-date-into-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Converting a date to a string means taking a date object and turning it into readable text. Programmers do this to display dates to users or to format them for storage or transmission.

## How to:
In Haskell, you use the `formatTime` function from the `Data.Time.Format` module for this job. Let's dive right into some code:

```haskell
import Data.Time
import Data.Time.Format (formatTime, defaultTimeLocale)

main :: IO ()
main = do
    -- Grab the current time
    currentTime <- getCurrentTime
    let currentZone = utc
        -- Convert UTC time into a local time object
        localTime = utcToLocalTime currentZone currentTime
        -- Format the date as "YYYY-MM-DD"
        dateString = formatTime defaultTimeLocale "%F" localTime
    putStrLn dateString
```

And here's what you might see as output, depending on the current date:

```
2023-04-01
```

## Deep Dive
Dating back to the early days of programming, converting dates to strings has always been a matter of practical usability. In Haskell, we owe our date and time handling to the `Data.Time` library, which was inspired by the functionality and improvements over older libraries such as `old-time`.

There are alternatives to `formatTime`, like using `show` to convert a date to a string directly, but this won't give you custom formatting options. The `formatTime` function is rich, supporting a variety of formats that align with the C's `strftime` function patterns. It's flexible and locale-aware, using `defaultTimeLocale` or other locales to format dates according to cultural conventions.

Regarding implementation, the `Data.Time.Format` functions are pure, meaning they don't rely on or cause side effects. This aligns with Haskell's functional programming ethos, which aims for functions to be predictable and their outcomes determined only by their inputs.

## See Also
For more extensive work on dates and times in Haskell, peruse the following:

- The `Data.Time` module documentation: [https://hackage.haskell.org/package/time-1.9.3/docs/Data-Time.html](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/time-1.9.3/docs/Data-Time.html)
- Details about `strftime` format strings, which `formatTime` imitates: [http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/strftime.3.html](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/strftime.3.html)
- Haskell's approach to IO and purity: [https://www.haskell.org/tutorial/io.html](https://www.haskell.org/tutorial/io.html)
