content/ko/python/capitalizing-a-string.md, before:

---
title:                "문자열 대문자로 변환하기"
html_title:           "Python: 문자열 대문자로 변환하기"
simple_title:         "문자열 대문자로 변환하기"
programming_language: "Python"
category:             "Python"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/ko/python/capitalizing-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## 왜

문자열의 첫 글자를 대문자로 변환하는 것은 프로그래밍에서 자주 사용되는 작업 중 하나입니다. 이를 통해 데이터를 정렬하거나 보기 쉽게 표시할 수 있습니다.

## 어떻게

```python
my_string = "korean"
print(my_string.capitalize())
```

**출력:** Korean

```python
my_string = "PYTHON"
print(my_string.capitalize())
```

**출력:** Python

위의 예시 코드를 보면, `capitalize()` 함수를 사용하여 문자열의 첫 글자를 대문자로 변환할 수 있습니다. 이렇게 하면 코드의 가독성을 높이고 데이터를 정렬할 때도 더 쉽게 처리할 수 있습니다.

## 깊게 파고들기

`capitalize()` 함수는 문자열의 첫 글자만 대문자로 변환해주는데, 만약 문자열 내의 모든 단어의 첫 글자를 대문자로 바꾸고 싶다면 어떻게 해야 할까요? 이때 사용할 수 있는 함수가 `title()` 함수입니다.

```python
my_string = "this is a python article"
print(my_string.title())
```

**출력:** This Is A Python Article

또한 `lower()` 함수와 `upper()` 함수를 사용하여 각각 모든 글자를 소문자 또는 대문자로 변환할 수도 있습니다. 마지막으로, `split()` 함수를 사용하여 문자열을 단어로 분리한 후, `capitalize()` 함수를 적용할 수도 있습니다.

## 관련 자료

- [Python의 문자열 메서드](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_strings_methods.asp)
- [온라인 Python 코드 에디터](https://www.online-python.com/)

Commit message:

new topic and content style

content/ko/python/capitalizing-a-string.md, after:

---
title:                "문자열 대문자 변환"
html_title:           "Python: 문자열 대문자 변환"
simple_title:         "문자열 대문자 변환"
programming_language: "Python"
category:             "Python"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/ko/python/capitalizing-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# What & Why?

Capitalizing a string means converting the first character of each word in the string to uppercase and the remaining characters to lowercase. Programmers often do this to make strings more visually appealing, follow proper grammar rules, or enhance search functionality.

# How to:

To capitalize a string in Python, you can use the built-in `title()` function. Here is an example:

```Python
my_string = "hello world"
print(my_string.title()) # Output: Hello World
```

You can also use the `capitalize()` method to capitalize only the first letter of the string. Here is an example:

```Python
my_string = "hello world"
print(my_string.capitalize()) # Output: Hello world
```

# Deep Dive:

Capitalized strings have been used since the early days of computing as a way to format text for display or printing. In Python, there are also alternatives for capitalizing strings such as using regular expressions or creating custom functions. However, the `title()` function is the most widely used method due to its simplicity and efficiency.

The `title()` function follows the Titlecase convention, which is a writing style that capitalizes the first letter of each word (except for articles, conjunctions, and prepositions) within a sentence. This makes the string more visually appealing and easier to read.

# See Also:

- [Python String Methods](https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_ref_string.asp)
- [Titlecase Convention](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letter_case#Title_case)
