---
title:                "C# recipe: Creating a temporary file"
programming_language: "C#"
category:             "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/c-sharp/creating-a-temporary-file.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

Creating temporary files is a common practice in programming, especially when working with temporary data or need to store data temporarily before processing it further. Temporary files can be easily created and deleted, providing flexibility and efficiency in coding.

## How To

Creating a temporary file in C# is a simple process. To start, we need to include the `System.IO` namespace in our code. Then, we can use the `Path.GetTempFileName()` method to generate a temporary file name and location. Next, we can use the `File.Create()` method to create the temporary file, passing in the file name generated by `Path.GetTempFileName()` as the parameter. Here's an example of how this would look in code:

``` C#
using System.IO;

//generate temporary file name
string tempFileName = Path.GetTempFileName();

//create temporary file
FileStream tempFile = File.Create(tempFileName);

//close the file
tempFile.Close();
```

This code will create a temporary file with a unique name and a ".tmp" extension in the default temporary directory for the current user. We are also using the `FileStream` class to create the file, as it provides us with additional methods for reading and writing data to the file.

To check if the file was successfully created, we can print the file name using `Console.WriteLine()`:

``` C#
Console.WriteLine("Temporary file created: " + tempFileName);
```

This will give us an output similar to this:

```
Temporary file created: C:\Users\Username\AppData\Local\Temp\tmpA524.tmp
```

Once we are done using the temporary file, we can use the `File.Delete()` method to delete it from our system. Here's an example:

``` C#
//delete temporary file
File.Delete(tempFileName);
```

## Deep Dive

It is important to note that temporary files are only temporary, and they should not be relied upon to store important or sensitive data. These files are typically stored in the system's temporary directory, which is automatically cleared out periodically. Therefore, any data stored in temporary files should be considered temporary and can potentially be lost.

Another important thing to keep in mind is that the temporary file will not exist if the application is terminated before the file can be deleted. In this case, the file will be deleted automatically upon system restart. It is also a good practice to check for the existence of the temporary file before attempting to create it, to avoid any potential conflicts.

## See Also

Here are some additional resources that you may find helpful when working with temporary files in C#:

- [Microsoft's Documentation on Temporary Files](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.io.path.gettempfilename?view=netcore-3.1)
- [Stack Overflow: "How to create a temporary file in C#"](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1360153/how-to-create-a-temporary-file-in-c-sharp)
- [C# Corner: "Working with Temporary Files in C#"](https://www.c-sharpcorner.com/UploadFile/8ef97c/create-and-delete-temporary-files-in-C-Sharp/)