---
title:                "C# recipe: Generating random numbers"
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "C#"
category:             "C#"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/c-sharp/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why Generate Random Numbers?

Generating random numbers may seem like a trivial task, but it is actually an important aspect of many programming tasks. Random numbers can be used for a variety of purposes such as:

- Generating unique identifiers or passwords
- Simulating real-world scenarios in games or simulations
- Adding an element of unpredictability in algorithms or decision making processes

Now that we understand the importance of random numbers, let's dive into how we can generate them in C#.

## How To Generate Random Numbers in C#

There are several ways to generate random numbers in C#. One of the simplest ways is by using the ```Random``` class from the ```System``` namespace. Here's an example of how we can generate a random integer between 1 and 10:

```C#
Random random = new Random();
int randomNumber = random.Next(1,11);
Console.WriteLine(randomNumber); //output: a random number between 1 and 10
```

We can also generate random floating-point numbers using the ```NextDouble()``` method:

```C#
Random random = new Random();
double randomDouble = random.NextDouble();
Console.WriteLine(randomDouble); //output: a random decimal number between 0 and 1
```

There are also other methods in the ```Random``` class that allow us to generate random bytes, longs, and even strings.

## Deep Dive into Generating Random Numbers

The ```Random``` class in C# uses a mathematical algorithm called a pseudorandom number generator (PRNG) to generate random numbers. This means that the numbers are not truly random but appear to be random based on a predetermined sequence of numbers. 

It is worth noting that the sequence of numbers generated by a PRNG can be predicted if the initial seed value is known. To prevent this, we can provide a different seed value each time we create a new instance of the ```Random``` class.

In C#, the default seed value is based on the current system time. This means that if we create multiple instances of the ```Random``` class in a short period of time, they will produce the same sequence of random numbers.

To overcome this issue, we can either use a larger and more complex initial seed value or reuse the same instance of the ```Random``` class throughout our code.

## See Also

- [Microsoft Docs on Random Class](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.random?view=net-5.0)
- [C# Random Numbers Tutorial](https://www.tutlane.com/tutorial/csharp/csharp-random-number-generator-with-programming)
- [Understanding Pseudorandom Number Generators](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/understanding-pseudorandom-number-generators/)