content/en/c-sharp/reading-command-line-arguments.md, before:

---
title:                "Reading command line arguments"
html_title:           "C++ recipe: Reading command line arguments"
simple_title:         "Reading command line arguments"
programming_language: "C#"
category:             "C#"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/c-sharp/reading-command-line-arguments.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Reading command line arguments in C# involves retrieving the values passed to a program at the start from the command line. Developers use this feature to allow user input to dictate the operation of programs, providing a flexible way to control application behavior without modifying the code.

## How to:

Here's a simple C# code snippet that reads command line arguments:

```C#
class Program {
    static void Main(string[] args) {
        for (int i = 0; i < args.Length; i++) {
            Console.WriteLine("Arg{0} = {1}", i, args[i]);
        }
    }
}
```

Assuming you run your program `program.exe` with two arguments "hello" and "world", the output would be:

```sh
Arg0 = hello
Arg1 = world
```

## Deep Dive

Historically, command line arguments were the primary way to pass parameters to a program. They're still useful for scripts, batch operations, and tools.

As alternatives, consider using configuration files or environment variables, which can be more suitable for complex parameters or sensitive data.

When reading command line arguments in C#, the arguments are stored in the `args` array passed to the `Main` method. It doesn't contain the program name, contrary to some languages like C or C++. The array is automatically populated by C# runtime, and arguments passed on command line are separated by spaces, unless they're enclosed in double quotes - these will be treated as a single argument.

## See Also

2. Other ways to provide app configuration: [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/configuration)
3. For understanding the C# Main method: [https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/main-and-command-args/](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/main-and-command-args/).

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/c-sharp/reading-command-line-arguments.md, after:

---
title:                "Reading command line arguments"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:55:43.038233-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Reading command line arguments"
programming_language: "C#"
category:             "C#"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/c-sharp/reading-command-line-arguments.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Reading command line arguments allows a C# program to process user inputs given at launch. Programmers use this to customize app behavior without altering code.

## How to:
Here's how to gobble up those command line arguments:

```C#
using System;

class Program
{
    static void Main(string[] args)
    {
        Console.WriteLine("You've entered the following arguments:");
        foreach (string arg in args)
        {
            Console.WriteLine(arg);
        }
    }
}
```

If you run your program like this: `yourapp.exe arg1 arg2 arg3`, expect the output:

```
You've entered the following arguments:
arg1
arg2
arg3
```

## Deep Dive
The tradition of command line arguments harks back to the dawn of computing, allowing early software to be flexible. In C#, `args` is a string array in `Main()` holding the arguments passed. Alternatives? Sure, there are libraries such as `CommandLineParser` that beef up capabilities, but for many tasks, `args` is your quick and dirty friend.

Under the hood, a C# app starts with `Main()`. When you call your app from a command line or script, the operating system slaps the arguments into an array and passes it to `Main()`. Easy peasy.

Got a complex app? Maybe you need to parse flags, options and values? That's where libs shine with more control and less boilerplate code than raw `args` parsing. But for simple input? `args` all the way.

## See Also
- [Microsoft Docs on Main() and command-line arguments](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/fundamentals/program-structure/main-command-line)
- [CommandLineParser library on GitHub](https://github.com/commandlineparser/commandline)
- [Stack Overflow discussion on parsing command line arguments in C#](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/491595/best-way-to-parse-command-line-arguments-in-c)
