content/en/dart/data-structures/using-associative-arrays.md, before:

---
title:                "Using associative arrays"
date:                  2024-03-08T21:33:37.742578-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-0125-preview
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Associative arrays in Dart, commonly known as Maps, are data structures that store data in key-value pairs. They enable programmers to access elements not through indices, but keys, making data retrieval intuitive and efficient, especially when working with structured data where each element has a unique identifier.

## How to:

Dart offers a straightforward syntax for creating and manipulating Maps. Below are examples demonstrating basic operations like creation, adding elements, and fetching values.

```dart
void main() {
  // Creating a map
  var fruitColors = {
    'apple': 'red',
    'banana': 'yellow',
    'grape': 'purple'
  };

  // Adding a new key-value pair
  fruitColors['orange'] = 'orange';

  // Accessing a value by its key
  print(fruitColors['apple']); // Output: red

  // Updating a value
  fruitColors['banana'] = 'green';

  // Iterating over the Map
  fruitColors.forEach((fruit, color) {
    print('$fruit: $color');
  });
  // Sample Output:
  // apple: red
  // banana: green
  // grape: purple
  // orange: orange
}
```

For complex data structures or extended functionality, Dart programmers often rely on additional libraries. One such library is `collection` which provides advanced collection types and utilities. Although `collection` does not modify the basic way Maps are handled, it enriches them with utility functions and more sophisticated collection types. Here's how you might use it for a more specific task, such as sorting a Map by its values:

First, ensure the `collection` package is included in your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  collection: ^1.15.0
```

Then, you can use it as follows:

```dart
import 'package:collection/collection.dart';

void main() {
  var fruitColors = {
    'apple': 'red',
    'banana': 'yellow',
    'grape': 'purple',
    'orange': 'orange'
  };

  // Sorting the Map by its values (colors)
  var sortedFruitsByColor = SplayTreeMap.from(
    fruitColors,
    (key1, key2) => fruitColors[key1]!.compareTo(fruitColors[key2]!)
  );

  print(sortedFruitsByColor);
  // Output:
  // {orange: orange, apple: red, banana: yellow, grape: purple}
}
```

This example demonstrates sorting a Map's entries based on their values, showcasing how Dart and its vibrant ecosystem can nimbly handle associative arrays for more sophisticated data manipulation.

Commit message:

Add description to dart articles

content/en/dart/data-structures/using-associative-arrays.md, after:

---
date: 2024-03-08 21:33:37.742578-07:00
description: "Associative arrays in Dart, commonly known as Maps, are data structures\
  \ that store data in key-value pairs. They enable programmers to access elements\
  \ not\u2026"
lastmod: '2024-03-09T21:06:23.351865-07:00'
model: gpt-4-0125-preview
summary: "Associative arrays in Dart, commonly known as Maps, are data structures\
  \ that store data in key-value pairs. They enable programmers to access elements\
  \ not\u2026"
title: Using associative arrays
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Associative arrays in Dart, commonly known as Maps, are data structures that store data in key-value pairs. They enable programmers to access elements not through indices, but keys, making data retrieval intuitive and efficient, especially when working with structured data where each element has a unique identifier.

## How to:

Dart offers a straightforward syntax for creating and manipulating Maps. Below are examples demonstrating basic operations like creation, adding elements, and fetching values.

```dart
void main() {
  // Creating a map
  var fruitColors = {
    'apple': 'red',
    'banana': 'yellow',
    'grape': 'purple'
  };

  // Adding a new key-value pair
  fruitColors['orange'] = 'orange';

  // Accessing a value by its key
  print(fruitColors['apple']); // Output: red

  // Updating a value
  fruitColors['banana'] = 'green';

  // Iterating over the Map
  fruitColors.forEach((fruit, color) {
    print('$fruit: $color');
  });
  // Sample Output:
  // apple: red
  // banana: green
  // grape: purple
  // orange: orange
}
```

For complex data structures or extended functionality, Dart programmers often rely on additional libraries. One such library is `collection` which provides advanced collection types and utilities. Although `collection` does not modify the basic way Maps are handled, it enriches them with utility functions and more sophisticated collection types. Here's how you might use it for a more specific task, such as sorting a Map by its values:

First, ensure the `collection` package is included in your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  collection: ^1.15.0
```

Then, you can use it as follows:

```dart
import 'package:collection/collection.dart';

void main() {
  var fruitColors = {
    'apple': 'red',
    'banana': 'yellow',
    'grape': 'purple',
    'orange': 'orange'
  };

  // Sorting the Map by its values (colors)
  var sortedFruitsByColor = SplayTreeMap.from(
    fruitColors,
    (key1, key2) => fruitColors[key1]!.compareTo(fruitColors[key2]!)
  );

  print(sortedFruitsByColor);
  // Output:
  // {orange: orange, apple: red, banana: yellow, grape: purple}
}
```

This example demonstrates sorting a Map's entries based on their values, showcasing how Dart and its vibrant ecosystem can nimbly handle associative arrays for more sophisticated data manipulation.
