content/en/typescript/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, before:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
html_title:           "Lua recipe: Deleting characters matching a pattern"
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "TypeScript"
category:             "TypeScript"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/typescript/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Deleting characters matching a pattern means removing from a string every character that fits a certain criterion. Programmers do this when they need to sanitize or standardize user-input data, cleanse files, or prepare text for machine learning tasks.

## How to:

```TypeScript
let str: string = 'Hello $World!@ This is42 a test string';
let strippedStr: string = str.replace(/[\d@$!]/g, '');
console.log(strippedStr); // Output: 'Hello World! This is a test string'
```

The code above is a simple example of removing all numbers, dollar signs, 'at' symbols, and exclamation points from the string `'Hello $World!@ This is42 a test string'`. The resulting string is `'Hello World! This is a test string'`. As you can see, removing characters from a string in TypeScript is a piece of cake.

## Deep Dive

Historically, different programming languages have provided various ways to delete characters matching specific patterns. Regex, short for regular expressions, has stood the test of time as a robust and flexible way to match patterns in text across all languages, TypeScript included.

As an alternative to `replace()`, you could use a combination of TypeScript's `split()`, `filter()`, and `join()` functions to achieve the same result. Here's a quick example:

```TypeScript
let str: string = 'Hello $World!@ This is42 a test string';
let regexPattern = /[\d@$!]/g;
let strippedStr: string = str.split('').map((c) => c.match(regexPattern) ? '' : c).join('');
console.log(strippedStr); // Output: 'Hello World! This is a test string'
```

One thing to note is that the `replace()` function used in our first example doesn't modify the original string but instead returns a new one. This follows a functional programming paradigm where data is immutable and side effects are limited.

## See Also

For more information on TypeScript programming, take a trip across the net:

- String replace() method: [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replace](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replace)
- Dive into regular expressions: [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_Expressions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Regular_Expressions)
- Functional Programming in JavaScript: [https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/07/dont-be-scared-of-functional-programming/](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2014/07/dont-be-scared-of-functional-programming/)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/typescript/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, after:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:43:16.529222-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "TypeScript"
category:             "TypeScript"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/typescript/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Deleting characters matching a pattern involves searching a string for a specific sequence of characters (the pattern) and removing them. Programmers do it to clean up or transform text data – think stripping HTML tags from a string, or removing unwanted punctuation.

## How to:

```TypeScript
function deletePattern(text: string, pattern: string): string {
  // Create a RegExp from the pattern string
  const regex = new RegExp(pattern, 'g');
  // Replace occurrences of the pattern with an empty string
  return text.replace(regex, '');
}

// Example usage
const originalText = "Hello, World! This -- is a test.";
const newText = deletePattern(originalText, "[,\\-!]");
console.log(newText);  // Output: "Hello World This  is a test"
```

## Deep Dive

Historically, dealing with strings in programming can trace its roots back to the dawn of computing. In TypeScript, which builds upon JavaScript, manipulating strings is a daily task. The `replace()` function we've used is inherited from JavaScript's robust string manipulation arsenal.

There are alternatives to RegExp for matching patterns – sometimes you might want to manually iterate through each character and make decisions with a switch statement or a series of ifs. But regular expressions provide a concise and powerful way to describe complex patterns for matching.

Implementation details get interesting when you dive into how RegExp patterns are interpreted at runtime. The 'g' flag in the RegExp constructor tells the engine to search globally across the string. Without it, only the first match would be replaced. Regular expressions can be simple or mind-bogglingly complex, depending on your needs.

## See Also

- The MDN Web Docs on RegExp: [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp)
- TypeScript Handbook on string manipulation: [https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/template-literal-types.html](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/template-literal-types.html)
- Regular expressions tester to help with pattern creation: [https://regexr.com/](https://regexr.com/)
