---
title:    "TypeScript recipe: Generating random numbers"
keywords: ["TypeScript"]
editURL:  "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/typescript/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

Random numbers are a crucial part of many programming tasks. They can be used for simulations, data encryption, and even gaming. Generating a random number can add an element of unpredictability to your code and make it more versatile. In this blog post, we will explore how to generate random numbers in TypeScript and take a deep dive into the process.

## How To

Generating a random number in TypeScript is a simple process. First, we need to import the `Math` object from the standard library. This object has a `random()` method that returns a random number between 0 and 1. We can then use this number to generate a larger range of random numbers. Let's see an example:

```TypeScript
import Math from "math";

//generating a random number between 1 and 100
let randomNumber = Math.random() * 100 + 1;

console.log(randomNumber);
//output: 73.2679862357
```

In the above code, we used the `random()` method to generate a number between 0 and 1 and then multiplied it by 100 to get a number between 0 and 100. We then added 1 to shift the range from 1 to 100. You can adjust this code to generate a random number within any range you need.

Besides generating random numbers, we can also use the `Math` object to round numbers, perform trigonometric calculations, and more. Be sure to check out the official TypeScript documentation for more information.

## Deep Dive

Generating random numbers may seem straightforward, but there is a lot happening behind the scenes. The `random()` method actually uses an algorithm called a pseudo-random number generator (PRNG). This algorithm uses mathematical formulas and a starting value called a seed to generate a sequence of numbers that appear to be random.

One common issue with PRNGs is that they can be predictable. If someone knows the seed and the algorithm used, they can easily replicate the sequence of numbers. To overcome this issue, it is recommended to use external sources such as user input or system time as the seed to make the sequence less predictable.

Another common issue is that the sequence of numbers generated by PRNGs is not truly random. This is because computers are deterministic machines and can only follow pre-defined instructions. Therefore, the sequence of numbers generated by PRNGs is considered pseudo-random rather than truly random.

## See Also

- [TypeScript official documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)
- [Understanding randomness in programming](https://medium.com/@saniyusuf/understanding-randomness-in-javascript-c9ba0bf2e4f2)
- [Seed and randomness in TypeScript](https://maturitas.me/seed-and-randomness-in-typescript/)

By now, you should have a good understanding of how to generate random numbers in TypeScript and the underlying concepts involved. Remember to use appropriate seeds and consider the limitations of PRNGs when working with random numbers in your code. Happy coding!