content/en/typescript/interpolating-a-string.md, before:

---
title:                "Interpolating a string"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Interpolating a string"
simple_title:         "Interpolating a string"
programming_language: "TypeScript"
category:             "TypeScript"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/typescript/interpolating-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Grooving with TypeScript: Interpolating a String 

## What & Why?

Interpolating a string is the process of embedding expressions within string literals, so they get evaluated as part of the string. Why do we need it? Well, it simplifies the concatenation of strings and variables—saving time and enhancing readability.

## How to:

In TypeScript, interpolation is done with backticks (`) and '${}'. Here's how:

```TypeScript
let name: string = "Anna";
let greeting: string = `Hello, ${name}!`; 
console.log(greeting); // Prints "Hello, Anna!"
```

Multiple variables? No problem. 

```TypeScript
let first: string = "Anna";
let last: string = "Johnson"
let fullName: string = `Full Name: ${first} ${last}`; 
console.log(fullName); // Prints "Full Name: Anna Johnson"
```
## Deep Dive 

String interpolation can be traced back to the early days of computer science, featuring in Perl, Ruby, and, notably, ES6 JavaScript—the prominent influencer of TypeScript. Its simplicity and readability over traditional concatenation techniques using "+", made it a favorite for developers.

Alternatives in TypeScript? You could use the concatenation operator '+'. It's verbose and less intuitive:

```TypeScript
let name: string = "Anna";
let greeting: string = "Hello, " + name + "!"; 
console.log(greeting); // Prints "Hello, Anna!"
```

Under the hood, string interpolation converts your expressions into a string and combines them with your literals. It performs similar to concatenation, with no significant performance difference.

## See Also 

2. [MDN Web Docs - Template literals (embedded expressions)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/typescript/interpolating-a-string.md, after:

---
title:                "Interpolating a string"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:51:48.024640-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Interpolating a string"
programming_language: "TypeScript"
category:             "TypeScript"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/typescript/interpolating-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

String interpolation lets you embed variables and expressions into strings. It keeps your code readable and flexible - no plus signs, no muss, no fuss.

## How to:

To interpolate a string in TypeScript, you use backticks `` ` `` and `${expression}` syntax:

```TypeScript
let user = 'Charlie';
let age = 27;

// Interpolating a string
let greeting = `Hi, I'm ${user} and I'm ${age} years old.`;

console.log(greeting);  // Output: Hi, I'm Charlie and I'm 27 years old.
```

## Deep Dive:

String interpolation isn't unique to TypeScript; it's also in JavaScript since ES6 and many other languages. Before this, we concatenated strings using the `+` operator, which looked like this:

```TypeScript
let greeting = 'Hi, I\'m ' + user + ' and I\'m ' + age + ' years old.';
```

The `+` method works, but it's clunkier and harder to read, especially with multiple variables. With interpolation, templates are cleaner and errors are easier to avoid.

What's happening under the hood? Interpolated strings are "syntactic sugar"—a simplified way to use the more complex feature known as "template literals". When compiled, your friendly, readable interpolation gets converted to a format the JavaScript engine can understand, often involving concatenation or other string manipulation methods.

An alternative to interpolation would be using template functions or libraries, but for most cases, interpolation with backticks is the handiest tool for the job.

## See Also:

- [Mozilla Developer Network on Template Literals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals)
- [TypeScript Documentation](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/)
- [ES6 Features and Syntax](http://es6-features.org/#StringInterpolation)
