content/en/typescript/reading-command-line-arguments.md, before:

---
title:                "Reading command line arguments"
html_title:           "C++ recipe: Reading command line arguments"
simple_title:         "Reading command line arguments"
programming_language: "TypeScript"
category:             "TypeScript"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/typescript/reading-command-line-arguments.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Reading Command Line Arguments with TypeScript

## What & Why? 
Reading command line arguments is a method that allows programmers to input data directly into their scripts via the command line interface. It's beneficial in a variety of contexts such as altering script behavior without requiring code changes, and for passing necessary variables at runtime.

## How to:

Let's take a look at how we can read command line arguments with TypeScript:

```TypeScript
let args: string[] = process.argv.slice(2);
console.log(args);
```

This script cuts off the first two arguments (node executable and script path) and returns the rest of the command line arguments. Run it with some arguments:

```bash
$ node script.ts arg1 arg2 arg3
```

The result will be:

```bash
[ 'arg1', 'arg2', 'arg3']
```

## Deep Dive

Historically, command line arguments have been used in UNIX systems, where small, concise command line utilities were common. Today, we use them to make our scripts more flexible and interactive.

While using `process.argv` is the most straightforward method of getting command line arguments in TypeScript, there are alternative packages like `yargs` or `commander` that provide advanced features like flags, defaults, and richer error messages.

Reading command line arguments in TypeScript essentially boils down to how V8 engine (which underpins Node.js) deals with them. `process.argv` is just an array reflecting command line call structure, where each space-separated part becomes an array member.

## See Also

Lightweight `minimist` npm package: https://www.npmjs.com/package/minimist

yargs npm package for more complex cases: https://www.npmjs.com/package/yargs

Node.js process.argv documentation: https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/process.html#process_process_argv

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/typescript/reading-command-line-arguments.md, after:

---
title:                "Reading command line arguments"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:57:02.958419-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Reading command line arguments"
programming_language: "TypeScript"
category:             "TypeScript"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/typescript/reading-command-line-arguments.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Command line arguments let users pass data to a program when they run it. Programmers use them to customize a program's behavior without changing the code.

## How to:

In TypeScript, you use Node.js to read command line arguments. Here's how:

```typescript
// Needed to import process from Node.js
import process from 'process';

// Grab command line args from the third position onward
const args = process.argv.slice(2);

console.log('Command line arguments:', args);
```

Run this script like `ts-node yourscript.ts arg1 arg2` and see:

```
Command line arguments: ['arg1', 'arg2']
```

## Deep Dive

Back in the early command-line days, user interaction was all about text. Linux, UNIX, and Windows used command line args to tell programs what to do.

Now for the alternatives: besides `process.argv`, in Node.js, you could use libraries like `yargs` or `commander` for more features like parsing and validation.

The guts of this in TypeScript are simple: `process.argv` is an array with all the arguments. Index 0 is the path to Node, index 1 is the script path, so real args start from index 2.

## See Also

To explore further, start with these:

- [Node.js process.argv documentation](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/process.html#process_process_argv)
- [Yargs GitHub repository](https://github.com/yargs/yargs)
- [Commander.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/tj/commander.js)
