content/en/typescript/writing-to-standard-error.md, before:

---
title:                "Writing to standard error"
html_title:           "TypeScript recipe: Writing to standard error"
simple_title:         "Writing to standard error"
programming_language: "TypeScript"
category:             "TypeScript"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/typescript/writing-to-standard-error.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Writing to standard error is a way for developers to display error messages or debug information in their code. This is useful for troubleshooting and identifying problems in a program.

## How to:
To write to standard error in TypeScript, you can use the built-in `console.error()` method. This method takes in an error message or any other string as its argument.

```TypeScript
console.error("This is an error message"); // Output: This is an error message
```

You can also use string interpolation to include variables or other dynamic information in your error message.

```TypeScript
let num = 5;
console.error(`The value of num is ${num}`); // Output: The value of num is 5
```

## Deep Dive:
Writing to standard error has been a common practice in programming for many years. Before the introduction of standardized error handling methods, developers would often write error messages to a specific output stream, such as standard error, to differentiate them from regular program output.

In addition to `console.error()`, TypeScript also offers other console methods for writing to standard output. These include `console.log()` for general logging, `console.warn()` for warning messages, and `console.debug()` for debugging messages.

Another alternative to using `console.error()` is throwing an error using the `throw` keyword. This allows for more specific and customized error messages. However, this should only be used for critical errors that require the program to stop.

## See Also:
- [Official TypeScript Documentation on console methods](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-2-4.html#prioritized-overloads)

Commit message:

redo the remaining articles with gpt-4-turbo

content/en/typescript/writing-to-standard-error.md, after:

---
title:                "Writing to standard error"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Writing to standard error"
simple_title:         "Writing to standard error"
programming_language: "TypeScript"
category:             "TypeScript"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/typescript/writing-to-standard-error.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Writing to standard error (`stderr`) sends error messages and diagnostics separate from standard output (`stdout`). Programmers do this to debug and log errors without cluttering regular program output.

## How to:

In TypeScript, you can write to `stderr` using `console.error` or `process.stderr.write`. Here's both in action:

```TypeScript
console.error("This is an error message to stderr");

process.stderr.write("This is another error message to stderr\n");
```

Sample output for both lines:

```
This is an error message to stderr
This is another error message to stderr
```

## Deep Dive

Historically, separating `stdout` and `stderr` let Unix users direct output and errors to different destinations. You could log errors for analysis while having clean output data. Alternatives to writing directly to `stderr` include logging libraries or frameworks that offer more control and features. Implementation-wise, `console.error` wraps around `process.stderr.write` with additional formatting capabilities, so using `console.error` is generally more convenient for simple messages.

## See Also

- Node.js documentation on console: https://nodejs.org/api/console.html
- Node.js process standard streams: https://nodejs.org/api/process.html#process_process_stderr
- Discussion on `console.error` vs `process.stderr.write`: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4976466/difference-between-process-stdout-write-and-console-log-in-node-js
