content/en/dart/good-coding-practices/logging.md, before:

---
title:                "Logging"
date:                  2024-03-08T21:33:24.985073-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-0125-preview
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Logging in Dart refers to the process of recording various levels of information during the execution of a program. Programmers do it to monitor the software's behavior, debug issues, and analyze performance, making it easier to maintain and improve the application over time.

## How to:

Dart includes a simple logging mechanism through the `dart:developer` library. For more sophisticated logging needs, programmers often turn to third-party libraries like `logger` and `log4dart`.

### Using `dart:developer`
This is suitable for basic logging, especially during development:

```dart
import 'dart:developer';

void main() {
  log('This is a debug log message.');
}
```

Output:
```
This is a debug log message.
```

### Using the `logger` package
For a more comprehensive solution, the `logger` package offers various levels of logging (e.g., info, warning, error) and can be formatted in a more readable manner.

First, add the `logger` dependency in your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  logger: ^1.0.0
```

Then, use it as follows:

```dart
import 'package:logger/logger.dart';

var logger = Logger();

void main() {
  logger.d("This is a debug message");
  logger.w("This is a warning message");
  logger.e("This is an error message");
}
```

Sample output might look like this, with each message type being formatted differently for easy identification:

```
💬 This is a debug message
⚠️ This is a warning message
❗️ This is an error message
```

### Using the `log4dart` package
For applications requiring configuration-based logging (similar to Log4j), `log4dart` offers a familiar approach. It's especially handy for large scale applications.

Ensure you include `log4dart` in your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  log4dart: ^2.0.0
```

A simple usage example:

```dart
import 'package:log4dart/log4dart.dart';

void main() {
  final logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger("MyApp");
  logger.debug("Debugging MyApp");
  logger.info("Informational message");
}
```

Output:

```
DEBUG: Debugging MyApp
INFO: Informational message
```

Each of these methods provides a different level of flexibility and complexity, from simple debugging messages to comprehensive, configurable logging suited to the needs of complex applications.

Commit message:

Add description to dart articles

content/en/dart/good-coding-practices/logging.md, after:

---
date: 2024-03-08 21:33:24.985073-07:00
description: "Logging in Dart refers to the process of recording various levels of\
  \ information during the execution of a program. Programmers do it to monitor the\u2026"
lastmod: '2024-03-09T21:06:23.361952-07:00'
model: gpt-4-0125-preview
summary: "Logging in Dart refers to the process of recording various levels of information\
  \ during the execution of a program. Programmers do it to monitor the\u2026"
title: Logging
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Logging in Dart refers to the process of recording various levels of information during the execution of a program. Programmers do it to monitor the software's behavior, debug issues, and analyze performance, making it easier to maintain and improve the application over time.

## How to:

Dart includes a simple logging mechanism through the `dart:developer` library. For more sophisticated logging needs, programmers often turn to third-party libraries like `logger` and `log4dart`.

### Using `dart:developer`
This is suitable for basic logging, especially during development:

```dart
import 'dart:developer';

void main() {
  log('This is a debug log message.');
}
```

Output:
```
This is a debug log message.
```

### Using the `logger` package
For a more comprehensive solution, the `logger` package offers various levels of logging (e.g., info, warning, error) and can be formatted in a more readable manner.

First, add the `logger` dependency in your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  logger: ^1.0.0
```

Then, use it as follows:

```dart
import 'package:logger/logger.dart';

var logger = Logger();

void main() {
  logger.d("This is a debug message");
  logger.w("This is a warning message");
  logger.e("This is an error message");
}
```

Sample output might look like this, with each message type being formatted differently for easy identification:

```
💬 This is a debug message
⚠️ This is a warning message
❗️ This is an error message
```

### Using the `log4dart` package
For applications requiring configuration-based logging (similar to Log4j), `log4dart` offers a familiar approach. It's especially handy for large scale applications.

Ensure you include `log4dart` in your `pubspec.yaml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  log4dart: ^2.0.0
```

A simple usage example:

```dart
import 'package:log4dart/log4dart.dart';

void main() {
  final logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger("MyApp");
  logger.debug("Debugging MyApp");
  logger.info("Informational message");
}
```

Output:

```
DEBUG: Debugging MyApp
INFO: Informational message
```

Each of these methods provides a different level of flexibility and complexity, from simple debugging messages to comprehensive, configurable logging suited to the needs of complex applications.
