content/en/arduino/printing-debug-output.md, before:

---
title:                "Printing debug output"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Printing debug output"
simple_title:         "Printing debug output"
programming_language: "Arduino"
category:             "Arduino"
tag:                  "Testing and Debugging"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/arduino/printing-debug-output.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Print Debug Output in Arduino

## What & Why?

Printing debug output is the process of sending informational messages from your program running on the Arduino board to your PC. It's crucial for figuring out what's happening inside your program, particularly when it is misbehaving.

## How to:

Using Arduino's built-in function `Serial.print()` and its sibling `Serial.println()`, we can easily print debug output. Let's walk through some code.

```Arduino
void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600); // Setting up serial communication at 9600 bps
}

void loop() {
  int sensorValue = analogRead(A0); // Reading the sensor value
  Serial.print("Sensor Value: "); // Printing the text
  Serial.println(sensorValue); // Printing the sensor value
  delay(200); // Waiting a bit before running the loop again
}
```

In the serial monitor, you would see output like this:

```Arduino
Sensor Value: 325
Sensor Value: 326
Sensor Value: 327
```

## Deep Dive

`Serial.print()` originated from C++ and is one of the staple functions in Arduino programming for sending data back to a computer via the USB connection.

Plenty of alternatives exist for `Serial.print()`. `sprintf()` and `snprintf()` are two functions you can use to format your debug output in more complicated ways. They allow including variable values within strings, a common requirement. 

An important detail to bear in mind: `Serial.print()` does not have an automatic line feed. If you want your subsequent output on a new line, either use `Serial.println()` or include `\n` at the end of your string.

## See Also

- If you want to get a deeper understanding of `Serial.print()`, the Arduino reference is a great place to start: [Arduino - Serial](https://www.arduino.cc/reference/en/language/functions/communication/serial/)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/arduino/printing-debug-output.md, after:

---
title:                "Printing debug output"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:52:05.086257-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Printing debug output"
programming_language: "Arduino"
category:             "Arduino"
tag:                  "Testing and Debugging"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/arduino/printing-debug-output.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Printing debug output to the serial monitor is a way to peek into an Arduino's mind. Programmers do it to track down gremlins, test assumptions, and monitor real-time data without using break-neck debugging techniques.

## How to:

Let's get down to brass tacks. Say you want to print "Hello, world!" every second. Here's the code snippet:

```Arduino
void setup() {
  Serial.begin(9600);  // Start the serial communication
}

void loop() {
  Serial.println("Hello, world!");  // Print the message
  delay(1000);  // Wait for a second
}
```

Fire up the Serial Monitor in the Arduino IDE and watch the words tumble down like clockwork. Sample output:

```
Hello, world!
Hello, world!
Hello, world!
...
```

## Deep Dive

Before `Serial` became our trusty sidekick, folks used blinking LEDs to communicate - the Stone Age of debugging. Then, serious debug hardware came along, but it was pricey. `Serial.print()` and its relatives now let us sling texts onto the screen at blistering speed, cheap as chips.

Alternatives? Well, you've got LCDs, logging to SD cards, even Bluetooth for the wire-averse. Each method has its quirks; `Serial` is just the straight shooter - simple, direct, always there.

Under the hood, `Serial.print()` converts your data into bytes that scuttle along the USB to your computer. This happens over hardware (UART) or software-emulated (SoftSerial) serial ports. It's reliable, but hogging the port with too much data can jam your program's flow, so sprinkle serial prints like you're seasoning a steak, not flooding a soup.

## See Also

For those hungry for more:

- Arduino's guide to `Serial`: [Arduino Serial](https://www.arduino.cc/reference/en/language/functions/communication/serial/)
- For the science behind serial communication: [UART Communication](https://www.sparkfun.com/tutorials/215)
