content/en/dart/strings/converting-a-string-to-lower-case.md, before:

---
title:                "Converting a string to lower case"
date:                  2024-03-08T21:33:50.597368-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-0125-preview
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Converting a string to lowercase is a fundamental operation that involves transforming all the characters in a given string to their lowercase equivalents. Programmers typically perform this operation to achieve case-insensitive comparisons or to standardize text input for further processing, making applications more user-friendly and data more consistent.

## How to:

In Dart, you can convert a string to lowercase using the `toLowerCase()` method provided by the `String` class. This method returns a new string with all uppercase characters converted to lowercase. Let's see how this works with a simple example:

```dart
void main() {
  String originalString = "Hello, World!";
  String lowerCaseString = originalString.toLowerCase();

  print(lowerCaseString);  // Output: hello, world!
}
```

Dart does not require external libraries for basic string manipulation tasks, including converting to lowercase, as the standard library's `String` class is quite comprehensive. However, for more complex manipulations involving locale-specific rules, you might consider the `intl` package, which provides internationalization and localization facilities, including case conversion based on locale:

To use `intl`, add it to your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  intl: ^0.17.0
```

Then, you can use the `toLocaleLowerCase()` method to convert a string to lowercase based on specific locales:

```dart
import 'package:intl/intl.dart';

void main() {
  String originalString = "İstanbul";
  
  // Turkish Locale
  print(Intl.withLocale('tr', () => originalString.toLowerCase())); // Output: istanbul
  
  // Default Locale (en)
  print(originalString.toLowerCase()); // Output: i̇stanbul
}
```

In this example, notice how the Turkish locale correctly handles the dotless 'i', showcasing the importance of locale-aware transformations in internationalized applications.

Commit message:

Add description to dart articles

content/en/dart/strings/converting-a-string-to-lower-case.md, after:

---
date: 2024-03-08 21:33:50.597368-07:00
description: "Converting a string to lowercase is a fundamental operation that involves\
  \ transforming all the characters in a given string to their lowercase\u2026"
lastmod: '2024-03-09T21:06:23.347537-07:00'
model: gpt-4-0125-preview
summary: "Converting a string to lowercase is a fundamental operation that involves\
  \ transforming all the characters in a given string to their lowercase\u2026"
title: Converting a string to lower case
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Converting a string to lowercase is a fundamental operation that involves transforming all the characters in a given string to their lowercase equivalents. Programmers typically perform this operation to achieve case-insensitive comparisons or to standardize text input for further processing, making applications more user-friendly and data more consistent.

## How to:

In Dart, you can convert a string to lowercase using the `toLowerCase()` method provided by the `String` class. This method returns a new string with all uppercase characters converted to lowercase. Let's see how this works with a simple example:

```dart
void main() {
  String originalString = "Hello, World!";
  String lowerCaseString = originalString.toLowerCase();

  print(lowerCaseString);  // Output: hello, world!
}
```

Dart does not require external libraries for basic string manipulation tasks, including converting to lowercase, as the standard library's `String` class is quite comprehensive. However, for more complex manipulations involving locale-specific rules, you might consider the `intl` package, which provides internationalization and localization facilities, including case conversion based on locale:

To use `intl`, add it to your `pubspec.yaml` file:

```yaml
dependencies:
  intl: ^0.17.0
```

Then, you can use the `toLocaleLowerCase()` method to convert a string to lowercase based on specific locales:

```dart
import 'package:intl/intl.dart';

void main() {
  String originalString = "İstanbul";
  
  // Turkish Locale
  print(Intl.withLocale('tr', () => originalString.toLowerCase())); // Output: istanbul
  
  // Default Locale (en)
  print(originalString.toLowerCase()); // Output: i̇stanbul
}
```

In this example, notice how the Turkish locale correctly handles the dotless 'i', showcasing the importance of locale-aware transformations in internationalized applications.
