content/en/dart/strings/extracting-substrings.md, before:

---
title:                "Extracting substrings"
date:                  2024-03-08T21:33:36.306932-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-0125-preview
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Extracting substrings is about retrieving specific portions of a string based on their positions or patterns. Programmers do this for tasks such as parsing user input, data manipulation, or extracting relevant information from larger text sources.

## How to:
In Dart, you can use various methods to extract substrings, such as `substring()`, `split()`, and regular expressions. Each method serves different purposes and offers flexibility in handling strings.

### Using `substring()`:
The `substring()` method is straightforward. You specify the start (and optionally, the end) index to slice the string.

```dart
void main() {
  String example = "Hello, World!";
  String result = example.substring(7, 12);
  print(result); // Output: World
}
```

### Using `split()`:
Split a string into a list of substrings based on a pattern (like a space or comma), and then access the substring by index.

```dart
void main() {
  String example = "Dart is fun";
  List<String> parts = example.split(' ');
  String result = parts[1]; // Access by index
  print(result); // Output: is
}
```

### Using Regular Expressions:
For complex patterns, Dart's `RegExp` class is powerful. Use it to match patterns and extract substrings.

```dart
void main() {
  String example = "Email: example@mail.com";
  RegExp regExp = RegExp(r"\b\w+@\w+\.\w+\b");
  String email = regExp.stringMatch(example)!;
  print(email); // Output: example@mail.com
}
```

### Third-Party Libraries:
Although Dart's standard library is quite capable, you might encounter scenarios where a third-party library could simplify your task. A popular choice for string manipulation and pattern matching is not specifically advocated here as Dart’s built-in capabilities often suffice. However, always check [pub.dev](https://pub.dev) for any libraries that might suit your specific needs better.

Commit message:

Add description to dart articles

content/en/dart/strings/extracting-substrings.md, after:

---
date: 2024-03-08 21:33:36.306932-07:00
description: "Extracting substrings is about retrieving specific portions of a string\
  \ based on their positions or patterns. Programmers do this for tasks such as\u2026"
lastmod: '2024-03-09T21:06:23.349017-07:00'
model: gpt-4-0125-preview
summary: "Extracting substrings is about retrieving specific portions of a string\
  \ based on their positions or patterns. Programmers do this for tasks such as\u2026"
title: Extracting substrings
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Extracting substrings is about retrieving specific portions of a string based on their positions or patterns. Programmers do this for tasks such as parsing user input, data manipulation, or extracting relevant information from larger text sources.

## How to:
In Dart, you can use various methods to extract substrings, such as `substring()`, `split()`, and regular expressions. Each method serves different purposes and offers flexibility in handling strings.

### Using `substring()`:
The `substring()` method is straightforward. You specify the start (and optionally, the end) index to slice the string.

```dart
void main() {
  String example = "Hello, World!";
  String result = example.substring(7, 12);
  print(result); // Output: World
}
```

### Using `split()`:
Split a string into a list of substrings based on a pattern (like a space or comma), and then access the substring by index.

```dart
void main() {
  String example = "Dart is fun";
  List<String> parts = example.split(' ');
  String result = parts[1]; // Access by index
  print(result); // Output: is
}
```

### Using Regular Expressions:
For complex patterns, Dart's `RegExp` class is powerful. Use it to match patterns and extract substrings.

```dart
void main() {
  String example = "Email: example@mail.com";
  RegExp regExp = RegExp(r"\b\w+@\w+\.\w+\b");
  String email = regExp.stringMatch(example)!;
  print(email); // Output: example@mail.com
}
```

### Third-Party Libraries:
Although Dart's standard library is quite capable, you might encounter scenarios where a third-party library could simplify your task. A popular choice for string manipulation and pattern matching is not specifically advocated here as Dart’s built-in capabilities often suffice. However, always check [pub.dev](https://pub.dev) for any libraries that might suit your specific needs better.
