content/en/dart/strings/using-regular-expressions.md, before:

---
title:                "Using regular expressions"
date:                  2024-03-08T21:33:26.327165-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-0125-preview
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Regular expressions (regex) in Dart offer a powerful way to search and manipulate strings, enabling programmers to perform complex text processing tasks efficiently. By understanding regex, developers can execute text validations, search patterns, and text transformations quickly, which is essential for processing forms, data parsing, and general string manipulations in modern applications.

## How to:
Dart uses the `RegExp` class for regular expressions. Here's a basic example to match a simple pattern within a string:

```dart
void main() {
  var pattern = RegExp(r'\bDart\b');
  var text = 'Learning Dart programming is exciting.';

  if (pattern.hasMatch(text)) {
    print('Match found!');
  } else {
    print('No match found.');
  }
  // Output: Match found!
}
```

To extract matches from a string, you can use the `allMatches` method. This method returns an iterable of matches:

```dart
void main() {
  var pattern = RegExp(r'\b\w+\b');
  var text = 'Dart is awesome!';

  var matches = pattern.allMatches(text);
  for (final match in matches) {
    print(match.group(0)); // This prints the matched substrings.
  }
  // Output:
  // Dart
  // is
  // awesome
}
```

Replacing text can be achieved using the `replaceFirst` or `replaceAll` methods:

```dart
void main() {
  var pattern = RegExp(r'\bDart\b');
  var text = 'Dart is not just a dart.';
  
  // Replace first occurrence
  var modifiedText = text.replaceFirst(pattern, 'Flutter');
  print(modifiedText); 
  // Output: Flutter is not just a dart.

  // Replace all occurrences
  modifiedText = text.replaceAll(pattern, 'Flutter');
  print(modifiedText);
  // Output: Flutter is not just a flutter.
}
```

Splitting a string by a regex pattern is straightforward using the `split` method:

```dart
void main() {
  var pattern = RegExp(r'\s+'); // Matches any whitespace character
  var text = 'Dart is fun';

  var parts = text.split(pattern);
  print(parts); 
  // Output: [Dart, is, fun]
}
```

For complex parsing or validations not supported directly by Dart's `RegExp`, you might consider third-party libraries, but Dart's standard library is often sufficient for common regex tasks, emphasizing its utility and versatility in handling regular expressions.

Commit message:

Add description to dart articles

content/en/dart/strings/using-regular-expressions.md, after:

---
date: 2024-03-08 21:33:26.327165-07:00
description: "Regular expressions (regex) in Dart offer a powerful way to search and\
  \ manipulate strings, enabling programmers to perform complex text processing tasks\u2026"
lastmod: '2024-03-09T21:06:23.349717-07:00'
model: gpt-4-0125-preview
summary: "Regular expressions (regex) in Dart offer a powerful way to search and manipulate\
  \ strings, enabling programmers to perform complex text processing tasks\u2026"
title: Using regular expressions
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Regular expressions (regex) in Dart offer a powerful way to search and manipulate strings, enabling programmers to perform complex text processing tasks efficiently. By understanding regex, developers can execute text validations, search patterns, and text transformations quickly, which is essential for processing forms, data parsing, and general string manipulations in modern applications.

## How to:
Dart uses the `RegExp` class for regular expressions. Here's a basic example to match a simple pattern within a string:

```dart
void main() {
  var pattern = RegExp(r'\bDart\b');
  var text = 'Learning Dart programming is exciting.';

  if (pattern.hasMatch(text)) {
    print('Match found!');
  } else {
    print('No match found.');
  }
  // Output: Match found!
}
```

To extract matches from a string, you can use the `allMatches` method. This method returns an iterable of matches:

```dart
void main() {
  var pattern = RegExp(r'\b\w+\b');
  var text = 'Dart is awesome!';

  var matches = pattern.allMatches(text);
  for (final match in matches) {
    print(match.group(0)); // This prints the matched substrings.
  }
  // Output:
  // Dart
  // is
  // awesome
}
```

Replacing text can be achieved using the `replaceFirst` or `replaceAll` methods:

```dart
void main() {
  var pattern = RegExp(r'\bDart\b');
  var text = 'Dart is not just a dart.';
  
  // Replace first occurrence
  var modifiedText = text.replaceFirst(pattern, 'Flutter');
  print(modifiedText); 
  // Output: Flutter is not just a dart.

  // Replace all occurrences
  modifiedText = text.replaceAll(pattern, 'Flutter');
  print(modifiedText);
  // Output: Flutter is not just a flutter.
}
```

Splitting a string by a regex pattern is straightforward using the `split` method:

```dart
void main() {
  var pattern = RegExp(r'\s+'); // Matches any whitespace character
  var text = 'Dart is fun';

  var parts = text.split(pattern);
  print(parts); 
  // Output: [Dart, is, fun]
}
```

For complex parsing or validations not supported directly by Dart's `RegExp`, you might consider third-party libraries, but Dart's standard library is often sufficient for common regex tasks, emphasizing its utility and versatility in handling regular expressions.
