content/en/elm/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, before:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
html_title:           "Lua recipe: Deleting characters matching a pattern"
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "Elm"
category:             "Elm"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elm/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Deleting characters matching a pattern is a common operation in text processing. This helps in cleaning up data, removing unwanted parts, or prepping input for further parsing.

## How to:

Elm offers no built-in function to directly delete characters matching a pattern. Instead, you can use `String.split` and `String.join` functions to reach the same result. Let's say you want to remove all occurrences of the letter 'a' from a string:

```Elm
removeChar : Char -> String -> String
removeChar char str =
    str
        |> String.split (String.fromChar char)
        |> String.join ""

-- in usage
removeChar 'a' "banana" 
-- Returns "bnn"
```

## Deep Dive

Deleting characters matching a particular pattern is an operation going back as far as the earliest days of text processing and is ubiquitous in every high-level programming language. Elm, being a frontrunner for functional programming in the front-end world, takes a different approach, adhering closely to functional programming principles.

An advantage of using `String.split` and `String.join` in place of a built-in replace function is that it lends itself well to function composition. It's a testament to Elm's philosophy of making data transformations a series of small, understandable steps.

An interesting detail about Elm's `String.split` is that it doesn't treat the input pattern as a regular expression, but as a literal string. Elm intentionally lacks regex support in its core libraries, pushing developers toward a more declarative style of string processing.

## See Also

2. String functions in Elm: [https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/elm/core/latest/String](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/elm/core/latest/String)
3. More on Functional Programming in Elm: [https://guide.elm-lang.org/](https://guide.elm-lang.org/)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/elm/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, after:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:41:49.379883-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "Elm"
category:             "Elm"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elm/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Deleting characters matching a pattern means to wipe out specific sets of characters from text, based on rules (patterns). Programmers do this for text cleaning, data processing, or to simplify input before parsing.

## How to:
Elm doesn't natively support regex, but you can simulate character deletion. Here's an example using `String.filter` to remove digits from a string.

```Elm
import Browser
import Html exposing (text)

removeDigits : String -> String
removeDigits = String.filter (\char -> not (char >= '0' && char <= '9'))

main =
  text (removeDigits "Elm 0.19.1 is super 123 cool!")

-- Output: "Elm . is super  cool!"
```

## Deep Dive
Elm lacks regex as part of its core language, differing from many other languages. This design choice aligns with Elm's goals for simplicity and safety. Regex can be error-prone and hard to debug, but Elm advocates simpler string operations that cover many common use cases.

For cases where regex is truly needed, the implementation relies on JavaScript interop via ports. However, Elm encourages finding solutions within the language first. The `String` module provides functions like `filter`, `replace`, and `split` which cover a wide range of pattern-based text manipulation without introducing regex's complexity. 

## See Also
- [Elm String documentation](https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/elm/core/latest/String)
- [Practical Elm for a Busy Developer](https://korban.net/elm/book/) - Book that includes text manipulation utilities.
