---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
html_title:           "Elm recipe: Generating random numbers"
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Elm"
category:             "Elm"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elm/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

Random numbers are a critical element in many programming tasks, from creating realistic game mechanics to ensuring unbiased data analysis. In Elm, generating random numbers is made simple through the use of the `Random` module. 

## How To

Generating a single random number in Elm is as easy as using the `generate` function from the `Random` module, and passing in a `Generator` which specifies the type of number you want. For example, to generate a random integer between 1 and 10, we can use the following code:

```Elm
import Random exposing (..)

randomInt : Int
randomInt =
  generate (int 1 10)
```

This will return a random integer between 1 and 10 each time the function is called. 

We can also use generators to create more complex random types, like lists or tuples. For example, to generate a list of 5 random integers between 1 and 100, we can use the following code:

```Elm
import Random exposing (..)

randomList : List Int
randomList =
  generate (list 5 (int 1 100))
```

This will return a list like `[85, 43, 27, 56, 94]` each time the function is called. 

We can even use random numbers to generate more interesting elements, such as colors. The `Generator` `rgb` lets us specify ranges for the red, green, and blue values, creating a randomized color palette. For example:

```Elm
import Html exposing (..)
import Html.Attributes exposing (..)
import Random exposing (..)

randomColor : Color
randomColor =
  generate (rgb (int 0 255) (int 0 255) (int 0 255))

view : Html msg
view =
  div [ style "background-color" (toString randomColor) ] []
```

This will generate a different random color for the background of the `div` element each time the page is refreshed.

## Deep Dive

The random numbers generated by Elm are not truly random, but rather pseudo-random numbers based on a seed value. This ensures consistency between runs of the same program while still giving the appearance of randomness. The seed can be set manually using `initialSeed` or the system's current timestamp can be used as the default.

To improve randomness, we can use the `step` function, which generates a new seed from the old one. This can be useful for creating a series of random events, such as in a game, where each event should be different from the previous one. 

## See Also

- Elm documentation on Random: https://package.elm-lang.org/packages/elm/random/latest/
- Random number generation in Elm tutorial: https://guide.elm-lang.org/interop/random.html