content/en/elixir/checking-if-a-directory-exists.md, before:

---
title:                "Checking if a directory exists"
html_title:           "Elixir recipe: Checking if a directory exists"
simple_title:         "Checking if a directory exists"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/checking-if-a-directory-exists.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Checking if a directory exists is a vital operation in file handling applications. Programmers do this to verify the existence of a directory before accessing or modifying its contents to prevent errors.

## How to:

In an Elixir program, you can verify if a directory exists by using the `File.dir?/1` function. Here's an example:

```Elixir
# Check if a directory exists
def check_directory(directory) do
  if File.dir?(directory) do
    IO.puts("#{directory} exists!")
  else
    IO.puts("#{directory} does not exists!")
  end
end

check_directory("/path/to/directory")
```

The function `File.dir?/1` returns a boolean indicating whether the provided path leads to a directory.



## Deep Dive

The `File.dir?/1` function is a part of the `File` module in Elixir, which provides functions to read, write, and manipulate files and directories. Introduced in the early versions of Elixir, this function is an essential aspect of the language's I/O operations. 

There are alternatives like checking for a directory by trying to open a directory with `File.ls/1` and seeing if it errors, but it's more involved and less explicit.

The `File.dir?/1` is a mere wrapper around the Erlang's `filelib` module's `is_directory/1` function. It emphasizes the interoperation between Elixir, built on Erlang's VM, with Erlang's extensive standard library.

## See Also

Details about the File module: https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/File.html  
Erlang's `filelib` documentation for more background: http://erlang.org/doc/man/filelib.html

Commit message:

Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/elixir/checking-if-a-directory-exists.md, after:

---
title:                "Checking if a directory exists"
html_title:           "C# recipe: Checking if a directory exists"
simple_title:         "Checking if a directory exists"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/checking-if-a-directory-exists.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Checking if a directory exists in Elixir is a way to verify the presence of a file system directory before performing operations on it. This is crucial to avoid errors while reading, writing, or navigating through directories.

## How to:
Checking for a directory in Elixir is straightforward thanks to the inbuilt `File.dir?/1` function:

```Elixir
directory = "/path/to/your/directory"
File.dir?(directory)
```

A sample output for a directory would read `true` or `false`, indicating whether the system recognized the path as an existing directory or not.

```Elixir
iex> directory = "/home/documents"
iex> File.dir?(directory)
true
```

## Deep Dive:
Historically, checking for the existence of a directory aided in error-proofing core tasks like file navigation, reading, and writing. As programming languages evolved, this basic function became fundamental, including in Elixir, which inherited the tradition from Erlang, its progenitor.

Alternative ways to check for a directory might include checking for errors when attempting to change into the directory with `File.cd/1`. However, using `File.dir?/1` is the preferred method due to its simplicity and readability.

Under the hood, Elixir's `File.dir?/1`, just like many file-related functions, relies on Erlang's `:file` module. It essentially wraps the `:file.read_file_info/1` function and checks if the `:type` field of the returned record is `:directory`.

## See Also:
Check out these useful resources that contribute further to this topic:

1. Elixir's official `File` module documentation: [https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/File.html](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/File.html)
2. Erlang's `:file` module documentation: [http://erlang.org/doc/man/file.html](http://erlang.org/doc/man/file.html)
3. More on Elixir's roots and inheritance from Erlang: [https://elixir-lang.org/getting-started/erlang.html](https://elixir-lang.org/getting-started/erlang.html)
