content/en/elixir/comparing-two-dates.md, before:

---
title:                "Comparing two dates"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Comparing two dates"
simple_title:         "Comparing two dates"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Dates and Times"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/comparing-two-dates.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Comparison of Dates in Elixir

## What & Why?

Comparing two dates means determining if one date is earlier, later, or the same as the other. Programmers do this to manipulate and analyze time-sensitive data effectively. 

## How to:

In Elixir, we use the `Date.compare/2` function of the `Date` module to compare dates. The function returns `:lt` for a lesser date, `:gt` for a greater date, and `:eq` for equal dates.

```Elixir
date1 = ~D[2022-01-01]
date2 = ~D[2022-02-01]

IO.inspect Date.compare(date1, date2) # {:lt, {2022, 1, 1}, {2022, 2, 1}}
```

## Deep Dive

Elixir, being a functional language, doesn't have native date types until version 1.3. Before this, we had to use external libraries like `Timex`. 

Instead of `Date.compare/2`, you could use `Date.diff/2` to get the difference in days, negative if the first date is earlier:

```Elixir
date1 = ~D[2022-02-01]
date2 = ~D[2022-01-01]

IO.inspect Date.diff(date1, date2) # 31
```

`Date.compare/2` uses Erlang's Calendar.ISO, which handles corner cases of Gregorian Calendar, making it accurate and efficient.

## See Also

- [Official Elixir's Date Documentation](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Date.html)
- [Comparison Operators in Elixir](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/operators.html)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/elixir/comparing-two-dates.md, after:

---
title:                "Comparing two dates"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:32:29.550791-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Comparing two dates"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Dates and Times"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/comparing-two-dates.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Comparing two dates means checking if they're the same or determining which comes first or last. Programmers do this to handle events, schedule tasks, validate input, or track durations.

## How to:
Elixir makes comparing dates straightforward. Here's an example comparing today with tomorrow:

```elixir
{:ok, today} = Date.new(2023, 4, 1)
{:ok, tomorrow} = Date.new(2023, 4, 2)

# Comparing if the same
Date.compare(today, today) # => :eq
# Output: :eq (equal)

# Which is earlier?
Date.compare(today, tomorrow) # => :lt
# Output: :lt (less than)

# Which is later?
Date.compare(tomorrow, today) # => :gt
# Output: :gt (greater than)
```

## Deep Dive
Historically, date comparison wasn't always a built-in feature in programming languages, and programmers would manually calculate the difference in seconds or days. Elixir's standard library, however, includes the `Date` module with a `compare/2` function that simplifies this task.

Alternatives for deeper time management exist within Elixir, like using the `DateTime` module for more precise time comparisons down to the second or microsecond.

When comparing dates, Elixir accounts for the complexities of the calendar system. It handles leap years, varying month lengths, and different calendar types, relying on the underlying Erlang `:calendar` module to ensure accuracy.

## See Also
- Elixir Date module docs: [https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Date.html](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Date.html)
- Erlang calendar module: [http://erlang.org/doc/man/calendar.html](http://erlang.org/doc/man/calendar.html)
- Timex - an Elixir library for dates and times: [https://hexdocs.pm/timex/Timex.html](https://hexdocs.pm/timex/Timex.html)
