content/en/elixir/creating-a-temporary-file.md, before:

---
title:                "Creating a temporary file"
html_title:           "Elixir recipe: Creating a temporary file"
simple_title:         "Creating a temporary file"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/creating-a-temporary-file.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Temporary files are temporary files created by programmers to store data temporarily during the execution of a program. These files are used to store data that is only needed for a short period of time and can be discarded once the program is finished.

## How to:

To create a temporary file in Elixir, we can use the [File] module's [open!] function. This function takes in a file path as a parameter and returns a tuple containing the file's handle and a temporary file path. The temporary file will automatically be deleted once the file handle is closed. 

Sample code:

```Elixir
{file_handle, temp_file_path} = File.open!( "my_temp_file.txt" )
File.write!(file_handle, "This is a temporary file created using Elixir!")
File.close(file_handle)
```

Sample output:

No output will be printed, but the temporary file "my_temp_file.txt" will be created in the current directory and will contain the text "This is a temporary file created using Elixir!".

## Deep Dive:

Temporary files have been a common practice in programming for a long time. They are commonly used for situations where data needs to be stored temporarily, such as caching, logging, or file transfers. 

An alternative to creating a temporary file is to use in-memory data structures such as Maps or Lists, which are faster but have limited capacity. Another alternative is to utilize a database, although this may introduce unnecessary complexity and potential performance issues.

The [File] module in Elixir handles the creation and management of temporary files. It uses the underlying OS's file system to create and delete temporary files. Additionally, the [Path] module can be used to manipulate file paths if needed.

## See Also:

- [File Module](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/File.html)
- [Path Module](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Path.html)
- [Temporary Files in Programming](https://www.baeldung.com/java-temporary-files)

Commit message:

content with gpt4 (#8)
* english python gleam and elixir

* Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/elixir/creating-a-temporary-file.md, after:

---
title:                "Creating a temporary file"
html_title:           "C# recipe: Creating a temporary file"
simple_title:         "Creating a temporary file"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/creating-a-temporary-file.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Creating a temporary file involves generating a file that is only needed for a limited period, typically for an ongoing process or session. Programmers create these files to provision writable space for temporary data, preserve system memory, and prevent potential data losses during a recalculation or rerunning process.

## How to:

In Elixir, you can create a temporary file using Erlang's `:file` module. Here's how to create such a file and write content to it:

```elixir
{:ok, file} = :file.mktemp() # Creates a temporary file
:file.write(file, "Temporary file content") # Writes to the file
```

And you can read content from the file like this:

```elixir
{:ok, content} = :file.read_file(file) # Reads content from the file
IO.puts(content) # Outputs the content
```

This will output:

```elixir
"Temporary file content"
```

## Deep Dive

Historically, temporary files provide an efficient way to store auxiliary data that doesn't need to permanently exist. They were especially important in older systems with limited memory resources. 

Elixir doesn't have a native method for generating temporary files, thus we use Erlang's `:file.mktemp()`. However, there are alternative approaches. For example, you might manually create a new file in the system's temporary directory.

Implementation-wise, `:file.mktemp()` creates the file with a unique name in the temporary directory (usually `/tmp` on Unix or Linux systems). The default permissions set the file to read-write for the current user, and no permissions for others.

Lastly, remember to delete the file when you're done. You can do this with `:file.delete(file)`.

## See Also

For more details, refer to Erlang's documentation on the `:file` module. 

1. ["Erlang's :file module documentation"](http://erlang.org/doc/man/file.html)
2. ["How to create a temporary file in Elixir?" StackOverflow Discussion ](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43367559/how-to-create-a-temporary-file-in-elixir)
3. ["Working with files and IO"](https://elixir-lang.org/getting-started/io-and-the-file-system.html) in Elixir's Getting Started guide.
