content/en/elixir/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, before:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
html_title:           "Lua recipe: Deleting characters matching a pattern"
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Deleting characters matching a pattern is removing specific characters or sequences from a string based upon a specified pattern (like 'abc', '.', etc). This aids in data cleaning, formatting and simplifying strings, and is a vital tool in a programmer's toolkit.

## How to:

In Elixir, Regex module is used for deleting characters matching a pattern. Here is an example that deletes all vowels from a string.

```elixir
iex> Regex.replace(~r/[aeiou]/, "Hello World", "")
"Hll Wrld"
```

In this case, the pattern is `[aeiou]` which represents all vowels. The `Regex.replace/3` function replaces all occurrences of this pattern in the string "Hello World" with an empty string "", effectively deleting them.

## Deep Dive

This technique has been embedded in programming languages for years. Not limited to Elixir, it is also found, with varying syntax, in Python, Java and many more, highlighting its usefulness and versatility. 

Some alternatives in Elixir include using the `String.replace/3` function, which also replaces occurrences of a pattern, but without the use of regular expressions. For example:

```elixir
iex> String.replace("Hello World", "o", "")
"Hell Wrld"
```

This replaces the 'o' character, but is less flexible, and suited for simpler replacements. 

As for the implementation, the `Regex.replace/3` function in Elixir uses the regular expression engine provided by Erlang, the powerhouse behind Elixir. This built-in functionality makes pattern deletion efficient and reliable.

## See Also

For more on Regex in Elixir, see the [official Elixir documentation](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Regex.html).

To learn more about the power of Erlang's regular expression capabilities that Elixir exploits, see the [official Erlang documentation](http://erlang.org/doc/man/re.html). 

For a deeper understanding of regular expressions across programming languages, check out this helpful site: [Regular-Expressions.info](https://www.regular-expressions.info/).

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/elixir/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, after:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:41:59.535072-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Deleting characters matching a pattern is all about finding specific sequences of characters and getting rid of them. Programmers do this to sanitize data, format content, or manipulate strings in a way that aligns with their specific needs.

## How to:

In Elixir, use the `String.replace/4` function to delete characters matching a pattern. Check out these samples:

```elixir
# Delete digits from a string
original_string = "Elixir2023Rocks!"
clean_string = String.replace(original_string, ~r/\d/, "")
IO.puts(clean_string) # Output: "ElixirRocks!"

# Remove punctuation
punctuationless_string = String.replace(original_string, ~r/[[:punct:]]/, "")
IO.puts(punctuationless_string) # Output: "Elixir2023Rocks"

# Strip out whitespace
no_whitespace_string = String.replace(original_string, ~r/\s/, "")
IO.puts(no_whitespace_string) # Output: "Elixir2023Rocks!"
```

## Deep Dive

The use of pattern matching to delete characters in strings is not unique to Elixir; it's a common feature in nearly all programming languages, evolved from regular expression (regex) capabilities in early Unix tools like `sed` and `grep`. Alternatives to `String.replace/4` could be using pattern matching and recursion to manually traverse and modify a string, but this method is generally more verbose and complex, making built-in regex functions a go-to. Under the hood, `String.replace/4` leverages Elixir's Erlang heritage, utilizing the powerful pattern matching and string manipulation abilities of the BEAM virtual machine.

## See Also:

- Elixir `String` module documentation: [https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/String.html](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/String.html)
- Regex in Elixir: [https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Regex.html](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Regex.html)
- 'Learn Regular Expressions': [https://www.regular-expressions.info/tutorial.html](https://www.regular-expressions.info/tutorial.html)
- Elixir School's take on strings and pattern matching: [https://elixirschool.com/en/lessons/basics/strings/](https://elixirschool.com/en/lessons/basics/strings/)
