content/en/elixir/generating-random-numbers.md, before:

---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:48:55.366372-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Generating random numbers is a way to produce unpredicted numerical values, often used in simulations, games, or as part of cryptographic operations. Programmers need randomness to test scenarios, add gameplay elements, or secure data.

## How to:

In Elixir, you can generate random numbers using functions from the `:rand` module, which is part of the Erlang standard library. Here's a quick run-through:

```elixir
# Seed the random number generator
:rand.seed(:exsplus, {1234, 5678, 91011})

# Generate a random integer
random_int = :rand.uniform(10)
IO.puts(random_int)  # This will print a random integer between 1 and 10

# Generate a random float
random_float = :rand.uniform()
IO.puts(random_float)  # This will print a random float between 0.0 and 1.0
```

Sample output might look like this (but, of course, your output will vary!):
```
7
0.44358372783200783
```

## Deep Dive

The `:rand` module hasn't always been around. In the past, Elixir used the `:random` module, but it was deprecated in favor of `:rand`. This new module provides better algorithms for random number generation. It has multiple algorithms available, but `:exsplus` is a good default for most uses.

It's crucial to seed the random number generator, otherwise it defaults to seeds based on the current time and process ID. Seeding ensures reproducibility, which is handy for tests or specific simulations.

Also, when you need cryptographically secure random numbers, you might consider alternatives like OpenSSL or other crypto libraries, since `:rand` is not suitable for cryptographic purposes due to its predictability.

## See Also

For more details on the `:rand` module, check out Erlang's official documentation: [Erlang -- rand](http://erlang.org/doc/man/rand.html)

To explore more on cryptographic secure random number generation, visit:
- [Introduction to Cryptography in Erlang/Elixir](https://blog.voltone.net/post/5)

Commit message:

redo random numbers (#17)
* remove existing files

* english random number articles

content/en/elixir/generating-random-numbers.md, after:

---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
date:                  2024-01-27T19:45:09.664519-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-0125-preview
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Generating random numbers in Elixir is about using built-in functions or libraries to produce numbers that appear to be the result of a random process. Programmers do this for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to simulations, gaming logic, testing, and security applications.

## How to:

Elixir provides a straightforward way to generate random numbers, primarily through the `:rand` module, which is part of the Erlang/OTP infrastructure, seamlessly accessible from Elixir. Here’s how you can start generating random numbers:

```elixir
# Seed the random number generator first
:rand.seed(:exsplus, {1234, 5678, 91011})

# Generate a random integer
random_integer = :rand.uniform(10)
IO.puts("Random Integer: #{random_integer}")

# Generate a random float between 0 and 1
random_float = :rand.uniform()
IO.puts("Random Float: #{random_float}")
```

Sample output might look something like this, though, of course, your actual output will vary:

```
Random Integer: 7
Random Float: 0.44358461764705883
```

For use cases requiring randomness that spans across different processes or nodes, you may find yourself seeding quite often or looking for ways to have a more globally accessible solution.

## Deep Dive

The `:rand` module in Elixir (and Erlang) uses different algorithms under the hood, with the default being the `exsplus` algorithm—a modified version of the Xorshift116+ algorithm, known for its high performance and good statistical properties for a wide range of applications. There was a time when Erlang used the `random` module, which was simpler but provided less statistically reliable results, leading to the adoption of `:rand` in OTP 18.0.

While the built-in capabilities of `:rand` cover many use cases, there are scenarios where more specialized random number generation might be needed, such as cryptographic applications. For these, the `:crypto.strong_rand_bytes/1` function can be utilized to generate a binary of cryptographically strong random bytes, which can then be converted into numbers as required. However, it's worth noting that this method is considerably heavier in terms of computation and should be used judiciously.

Elixir’s minimalistic approach in its core language features, choosing to leverage the robust, underlying Erlang libraries like `:rand`, exemplifies its philosophy of being a small, extensible language. This strategy allows Elixir programs to achieve broad functionality without bloating the language with specialized functions for every possible use case.

## See also

### Official Elixir Documentation
- [Erlang `:rand` Module](https://erlang.org/doc/man/rand.html)

### Tutorials and Guides
- **Elixir School**: [Random Numbers](https://elixirschool.com/en/lessons/basics/randomness/)
- **Medium**: [Random Number Generation in Elixir](https://medium.com/@feymartynov/random-number-generation-in-elixir-b7caf04a9552)

### Blog Posts and Articles
- **Poeticoding**: [Dealing with Randomness in Elixir](https://poeticoding.com/dealing-with-randomness-in-elixir/)
- **Dev.to**: [Random Number in Elixir](https://dev.to/fazibear/random-number-in-elixir-1n4)
