content/en/elixir/getting-the-current-date.md, before:

---
title:                "Getting the current date"
html_title:           "Elixir recipe: Getting the current date"
simple_title:         "Getting the current date"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Dates and Times"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/getting-the-current-date.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Getting the current date is the process of retrieving the current date and time from your computer's system clock. It is a common task for programmers who want to keep track of time-sensitive events or display the current date and time in their applications.

## How to:

```Elixir
Date.utc_today()
#=> ~D[2021-09-29]

Date.utc_today() |> Date.to_string()
#=> "2021-09-29"
```

The `Date.utc_today()` function returns the current date in the UTC format. The resulting date is represented using the `~D[YYYY-MM-DD]` syntax. To convert it into a string, we can use the `Date.to_string()` function.

```Elixir
Date.to_string(Date.utc_today(), [{:format, "{ISO}"}, {:width, 1}])
#=> "{2021-09-29T00:00:00.000Z}"

Date.to_string(Date.utc_today(), [{:format, "{ISO8601}"}, {:width, 1}])
#=> "{2021-09-29T00:00:00Z}"

Date.strftime(Date.utc_today(), "%m/%d/%Y")
#=> "09/29/2021"
```

If we want to customize the format of the date, we can use the `Date.to_string()` or the `Date.strftime()` functions. The `Date.to_string()` function accepts various options like `{:format, "{ISO8601}"} or {:width, 1}` to specify the output format. On the other hand, `Date.strftime()` uses the [strftime](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/strftime.3.html) format specifiers to define the output format.

## Deep Dive:

In Elixir, dates and times are represented using the `Date` and `Time` modules. The `Date` module provides functions for manipulating dates, while the `Time` module handles time-related functions.

Alternative methods for getting the current date in Elixir include using the built-in `:os.timestamp()` function or the [Timex](https://github.com/bitwalker/timex) library. These methods offer additional features such as timezone handling and date manipulation.

Under the hood, Elixir uses the `erlang:now()` function to get the current date and time from the Erlang VM. The `Date.utc_today()` function then converts the Erlang timestamp into a `Date` struct. This approach ensures consistent date and time across different systems and platforms.

## See Also:

- [Elixir Date module documentation](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Date.html)
- [Elixir Time module documentation](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Time.html)
- [Erlang :os.timestamp() function documentation](https://erlang.org/doc/man/os.html#timestamp-0)
- [Timex library documentation](https://hexdocs.pm/timex/index.html)

Commit message:

content with gpt4 (#8)
* english python gleam and elixir

* Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/elixir/getting-the-current-date.md, after:

---
title:                "Getting the current date"
html_title:           "Elm recipe: Getting the current date"
simple_title:         "Getting the current date"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Dates and Times"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/getting-the-current-date.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Get Current Date in Elixir: Riding the Time Machine

## What & Why?

Getting the current date is simply retrieving the present day’s information (year, month, day) in the system timezone. Coders do it when building features such as event logging, time tracking, or date stamping records.

## How to:

In Elixir, you use the `DateTime` module to get the current date. Here's how you do it:

```elixir
DateTime.utc_now() |> DateTime.to_date()
```

When you run it, you can expect to see something like this:

```elixir
~D[2022-03-17]
```

This returns the current UTC date.

## Deep Dive 

Elixir's `DateTime` was introduced in version 1.3 as part of the standard library. Before that, developers used libraries like Timex. However, the introduction of `DateTime` as a built-in Elixir module made handling date and time simpler and more straightforward.

Despite `DateTime`'s functionality ease, you might want to use other ways to get the current time. For instance, `NaiveDateTime.local_now/0` gives local date and time without timezone info. 

Your choice depends on whether your application needs to account for time zones. But remember: it's usually best to use UTC date and handle timezone conversions separately.

Another aspect to consider is system clock skews, which might give imprecise results. However, this is a larger timekeeping issue not specific to Elixir programming.

## See Also

To learn more about working with dates and times in Elixir, check out these resources:

- Elixir's `DateTime` Official Docs: https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/DateTime.html
- Tutorial on Elixir's date, time and timestamps: https://www.mitchellhanberg.com/posts/2018/07/31/elixir-dates-times-and-timestamps.html
- Why timezones, leap seconds matter: https://zachholman.com/talk/utc-is-enough-for-everyone-right
