content/en/elixir/reading-command-line-arguments.md, before:

---
title:                "Elixir recipe: Reading command line arguments"
simple_title:         "Reading command line arguments"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/reading-command-line-arguments.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

When it comes to programming in Elixir, there are many tools available to make our lives easier. One of these tools is reading command line arguments. Understanding how to do this can save you time and make your code more efficient. In this post, we will explore how to read command line arguments in Elixir.

## How To

To read command line arguments in Elixir, we can use the `System.argv` function. This function returns a list of command line arguments passed to the program. Let's take a look at a simple example:

```
Elixir
defmodule CommandLine do
  def main do
    args = System.argv
    IO.puts "Arguments passed: #{inspect args}"
  end
end

CommandLine.main()
```

In this example, we define a module `CommandLine` and a function `main`. Inside the `main` function, we use `System.argv` to retrieve the command line arguments and then use `IO.puts` to output them on the screen. Let's say we run this program with the following command: `elixir command_line.exs argument1 argument2`. The output will be:

```
Arguments passed: ["argument1", "argument2"]
```

We can also access specific arguments by using their position in the list. For example, if we want to access the second argument, we can use `args[1]`. Keep in mind that the first argument will always be the name of the script itself.

We can also use `System.argv` inside a `mix.exs` file to pass arguments to our project when running tasks. This can be useful for different configurations or settings.

## Deep Dive

Behind the scenes, `System.argv` is using the Erlang `os:getarg` function to retrieve the arguments from the command line. This function uses the operating system's API to access the arguments. It's important to note that command line arguments are always passed as strings, so we may need to convert them to the desired data type before using them in our code.

Another helpful tool for working with command line arguments is the `OptionParser` module. This module provides a convenient way to parse and validate options passed through the command line. It also allows us to define default values for options if they are not provided.

## See Also

To learn more about reading command line arguments in Elixir, check out these resources:

- [Elixir Documentation on System.argv](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/System.html#argv/0)
- [Elixir Documentation on OptionParser](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/OptionParser.html)
- [Blog post on Command Line Arguments in Elixir by PragTob](https://pragtob.wordpress.com/2013/10/22/bite-sized-command-line-applications-with-elixir-part-2/)

Commit message:

better writing, new default title

content/en/elixir/reading-command-line-arguments.md, after:

---
title:                "Reading command line arguments"
html_title:           "Elixir recipe: Reading command line arguments"
simple_title:         "Reading command line arguments"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/reading-command-line-arguments.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

Reading command line arguments is a fundamental skill in programming that allows you to interact with your code in a more dynamic and customizable way. It also allows you to pass information and parameters to your code without hardcoding them, making your code more flexible and efficient.

## How To

To read command line arguments in Elixir, we will use the `System.argv` function. This function returns a list of all the arguments passed to our script when it was executed. Let's see it in action:

```Elixir
defmodule CommandLine do
  def run(args) do
    IO.inspect args
  end
end

CommandLine.run(System.argv)
```

Save this code in a file called `command_line.exs` and run it with `elixir command_line.exs hello world`. You should see the output `["hello", "world"]` printed in your console. You can pass as many arguments as you want, and they will all be captured in the `args` variable as a list.

We can also use pattern matching to access individual arguments. For example, if we want to assign the first argument to a variable called `greeting` and the second argument to a variable called `name`, we can do it like this:

```Elixir
defmodule CommandLine do
  def run([greeting, name | _rest]) do
    IO.puts "#{greeting} #{name}!"
  end
end

CommandLine.run(System.argv)
```

Now when we run our script with `elixir command_line.exs "Hello" "John"`, it will output `Hello John!` in the console.

## Deep Dive

The `System.argv` function is a part of the `System` module, which is a collection of functions that provides access to system-level operations. It also has a counterpart, `System.get_env`, that allows us to retrieve environment variables and use them in our code.

We can also use the `System.argv` function in a mix project. In this case, the arguments will be passed to the `mix run` command, and the first argument will always be the path to the script being executed.

## See Also

- [Elixir Documentation on System](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/System.html)
- [Elixir Scripting](https://elixir-lang.org/getting-started/introduction.html#scripting)
