content/en/elixir/starting-a-new-project.md, before:

---
title:                "Starting a new project"
html_title:           "Elixir recipe: Starting a new project"
simple_title:         "Starting a new project"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Getting Started"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/starting-a-new-project.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

If you're a developer looking to start a new project, you may want to consider Elixir. This functional programming language is known for its scalability, fault tolerance, and performance, making it a popular choice for building robust and reliable applications.

## How To

To get started with Elixir, the first step is to install the latest version of the language. You can do this by following the official installation instructions on the Elixir website.

Once Elixir is installed, you can create a new project by using the `mix` tool which comes bundled with Elixir. Simply navigate to the desired directory and run `mix new project_name` in your terminal. This will generate a new project with the necessary boilerplate code.

Let's take a look at a simple example of how to use Elixir. We'll create a function that takes in a name as an argument and returns a personalized greeting:

```elixir
def greeting(name) do
  "Hello #{name}, welcome to the world of Elixir!"
end

greeting("Sam")
# Output: Hello Sam, welcome to the world of Elixir!
```

As you can see, Elixir uses a functional style of programming, where functions are its building blocks. It also supports pattern matching and pipe operators, making code easier to read and understand.

## Deep Dive

One of the key features of Elixir is its use of the Erlang Virtual Machine (VM). This allows Elixir to leverage the robustness and scalability of Erlang, while also providing a more modern and user-friendly syntax.

When starting a new project in Elixir, it's important to consider the OTP (Open Telecom Platform) framework. OTP provides a set of abstractions and libraries that enable developers to build fault-tolerant and distributed systems. It also includes features such as supervision trees and gen servers, which are crucial for creating resilient applications.

Moreover, Elixir comes with a built-in tool called "Mix" that can aid in managing dependencies, running tests, and generating documentation for your project. It also has a vibrant community that continuously contributes new libraries and tools, making it easier for developers to build complex systems.

See Also
- [Official Elixir Website](https://elixir-lang.org/)
- [Elixir School](https://elixirschool.com/)
- [Awesome Elixir](https://github.com/h4cc/awesome-elixir)

Commit message:

new topic and content style

content/en/elixir/starting-a-new-project.md, after:

---
title:                "Starting a new project"
html_title:           "Elixir recipe: Starting a new project"
simple_title:         "Starting a new project"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Getting Started"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/elixir/starting-a-new-project.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Starting a new project in Elixir is the process of creating a new code base for a program or application. Programmers often start new projects to develop new features, improve existing ones, or explore new ideas.

## How to:

To start a new project in Elixir, we will use the `mix` command. 

```Elixir
mix new my_project
```

This creates a new project folder with the name `my_project` and sets up the necessary files and directories for an Elixir project. 

We can also specify the `--sup` flag to create a project with a `supervisor` module, which will supervise the application's processes. 

```Elixir
mix new --sup my_project
```

The `--sup` flag is useful for projects that require more robust error handling and process management. 

## Deep Dive:

Elixir's `mix` command is inspired by the Ruby on Rails `rails` command, which also creates a new project structure and sets up commonly used files and directories. However, Elixir's `mix` is more flexible and allows for customization by using different mixins. 

An alternative to using `mix` is manually creating the necessary files and folders, but this can be time-consuming and error-prone. Therefore, it is recommended to use `mix` to start new projects.

Under the hood, the `mix` command uses a template engine called `mix new`. This allows for the easy creation of new projects with customizable options. 

## See Also:

Official Elixir documentation on `mix new`: https://hexdocs.pm/mix/Mix.Tasks.New.html
