content/en/javascript/converting-a-date-into-a-string.md, before:

---
title:                "Javascript recipe: Converting a date into a string"
simple_title:         "Converting a date into a string"
programming_language: "Javascript"
category:             "Javascript"
tag:                  "Dates and Times"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/javascript/converting-a-date-into-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

Converting a date into a string may seem like a simple task, but it can actually be beneficial in various programming scenarios. Some common reasons for converting dates into strings include displaying them in a user-friendly format, sorting and manipulating data, and passing data between different systems.

## How To

To convert a date into a string in Javascript, we can use the `toString()` method. This method converts a date object into a string, using the computer's local time zone as the default. Here's an example code block:

```Javascript
let today = new Date(); 
let dateString = today.toString(); 
console.log(dateString); 
```

This code will output the following string: `Mon Nov 09 2020 15:29:11 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)`

We can also specify a different time zone by using the `toLocaleString()` method. This method takes in two parameters: the desired time zone and an options object to format the string output. Here's an example:

```Javascript
let date = new Date(Date.UTC(2020, 10, 25, 18, 30, 0));

console.log(date.toLocaleString("en-US", {timeZone: "UTC"})); // 11/25/2020, 6:30:00 PM
```

## Deep Dive

Now that we have covered the basic methods for converting a date into a string, let's take a deeper look at the options object for `toLocaleString()`. This object allows us to format the output string according to our preferences.

Some common options include `year`, `month`, `day`, `hour`, `minute`, `second`, `weekday`, and `timeZoneName`. We can specify which options we want to include in the output string and even change the order by specifying an array of options. Here's an example:

```Javascript
let date = new Date("2020-10-20T12:00:00");
console.log(date.toLocaleString("en-US", {weekday: "long", year: "numeric", month: "long", day: "numeric", timeZoneName: "short"})); // Tuesday, Oct 20, 2020, GMT-5
```

For more information on the available options, check out the [MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/toLocaleString). Understanding these options can help us customize our output string to suit our needs.

## See Also

- [MDN documentation for `toString()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/toString)
- [MDN documentation for `toLocaleString()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/toLocaleString)
- [W3Schools tutorial on working with dates in Javascript](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_dates.asp)

Commit message:

better writing, new default title

content/en/javascript/converting-a-date-into-a-string.md, after:

---
title:                "Converting a date into a string"
html_title:           "Javascript recipe: Converting a date into a string"
simple_title:         "Converting a date into a string"
programming_language: "Javascript"
category:             "Javascript"
tag:                  "Dates and Times"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/javascript/converting-a-date-into-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

Converting a date into a string is a common task in web development. In many cases, we need to display dates in a specific format or manipulate them for various purposes. By converting a date into a string, we can easily work with dates and display them in the desired format.

## How To

To convert a date into a string in Javascript, we can use the `toString()` method. This method returns the string representation of a date object. Let's see an example:

```Javascript
let date = new Date();
let stringDate = date.toString();
console.log(stringDate); // output: Wed Nov 25 2020 11:13:45 GMT+0530 (India Standard Time)
```

We can also use the `toLocaleDateString()` method to convert the date into a string with a specific format based on the user's local time zone.

```Javascript
const options = { weekday: 'long', year: 'numeric', month: 'long', day: 'numeric' };
console.log(date.toLocaleDateString('en-US', options)); // output: Wednesday, November 25, 2020
```

We can also use third-party libraries like Moment.js to convert dates into strings with various formats and translations.

## Deep Dive

When converting dates into strings, it's essential to understand the concept of time zones. The `toString()` method returns the date and time in the local time zone of the user's browser. However, the `toLocaleDateString()` method considers the time zone passed as an argument and returns the date and time accordingly.

Another important aspect to consider is that the `toString()` method returns the date and time in a standardized format, while the `toLocaleDateString()` method returns the date and time in a format based on the language specified.

Furthermore, when using third-party libraries like Moment.js, it's crucial to understand their syntax and methods to get the desired format and translations. It's always recommended to check the documentation before using any third-party library.

## See Also

- [MDN web docs on the `toString()` method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/toString)
- [MDN web docs on the `toLocaleDateString()` method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/toLocaleDateString)
- [Moment.js documentation](https://momentjs.com/docs/)
