content/en/javascript/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, before:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
html_title:           "Lua recipe: Deleting characters matching a pattern"
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "Javascript"
category:             "Javascript"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/javascript/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Deleting Characters Matching a Pattern in JavaScript

## What & Why?
Deleting characters matching a pattern in JavaScript utilizes regular expression to identify and eliminate specific sequences of characters within a string. Programmers do this for data cleaning, formatting and efficient manipulation of text data. 

## How to:
Let's write some code. Consider we have a string and we want to get rid of all numbers.

```Javascript
let str = "Hello123 World456!";
str = str.replace(/\d+/g, '');
console.log(str); // Outputs: "Hello World!"
```
Here, `/\d+/g` is a regular expression wherein `\d+` matches one or more digits and `g` is a global flag to replace all matching occurrences. 

If you wish to delete all symbols but letters and numbers, you can use the \W metacharacter in combination with g (global).

```Javascript
let str = "Hello, World!";
str = str.replace(/\W/g, '');
console.log(str); // Outputs: "HelloWorld"
```

## Deep Dive
The `replace()` method was introduced as part of ECMAScript 3 (ES3) back in 1999, showing its longstanding usage in JavaScript. 

Alternatives to `replace()` include `split().join()`. This must be used wisely as it's slower for replacing instances in large strings. 

```Javascript
let str = "Hello123 World456!";
str = str.split("123").join('');
console.log(str); // Outputs: "Hello World456!"
```

It's important to note that if no global flag (g) is added, `replace()` only replaces the first occurrence.

## See Also
- [Mozilla Developer Network](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replace) documentation on Javascript String replace() method. 
- Regular expressions tutorial and playground at [regex101](https://regex101.com/).

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/javascript/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, after:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:42:19.091714-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "Javascript"
category:             "Javascript"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/javascript/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Removing characters based on a pattern makes strings clean and uniform. Programmers do this for formatting, removing unwanted characters, or for simplification before processing.

## How to:
Use `replace()` with a regular expression. The `g` flag replaces all matches, not just the first.

```javascript
let message = "S0m3 messy-string_with! unwanted characters.";
let cleanMessage = message.replace(/[0-9_!-]/g, '');
console.log(cleanMessage); // Output: "Sm messystringwith unwanted characters."
```

## Deep Dive
JavaScript has long used regular expressions (`RegExp`) for pattern matching. The `replace()` function is your go-to for modifying strings since its inception in the early days of the language. Alternatives like `split()` and `join()` or using loops to reconstruct strings exist but aren't as succinct.

Here's a breakdown:
- Use `replace()` for straightforward, one-liner solutions.
- Regular expressions provide powerful pattern-matching capabilities.
- Be aware of `RegExp` performance in tight loops or massive strings.

A word on modern practices: patterns like `/[^a-z]/gi` remove anything not a letter, respecting case-insensitivity with the `i` flag. The introduction of template literals in ECMAScript 2015 made complex replacements easier, enhancing readability.

Regular expressions still intimidate some programmers due to their syntax complexity. However, with modern JavaScript evolving, tools and methods like string manipulation functions (`trim()`, `padStart()`, `padEnd()`, etc.) are available to simplify common tasks, potentially without regex.

## See Also
- [MDN Web Docs on replace()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/replace)
- [RegExr: Learn, build, & test RegEx](https://regexr.com/)
- [JavaScript RegExp Reference](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_obj_regexp.asp)
