---
title:                "Javascript recipe: Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Javascript"
category:             "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/javascript/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## Why

Generating random numbers is a common task in many programming languages, including Javascript. It can be used for a variety of purposes, such as creating unique identifiers, implementing game mechanics, and generating test data. By utilizing random numbers, programmers can add a level of unpredictability and randomness to their programs.

## How To

To generate random numbers in Javascript, we can use the built-in `Math.random()` function. This function returns a random floating-point number between 0 (inclusive) and 1 (exclusive). To get a random integer within a specific range, we can use the following formula: 

```Javascript 
// To generate a random integer between min (inclusive) and max (inclusive)
Math.floor(Math.random() * (max - min + 1) ) + min; 
```

We can also use this formula to generate random integers starting from 0 by replacing `min` with 0. For example, to generate a random integer between 0 and 10, we can use the following code:

```Javascript 
Math.floor(Math.random() * 11); 
```

To get more complex output, we can use `Math.random()` in combination with other mathematical operations. For instance, if we wanted to generate a random floating-point number between 10 (inclusive) and 20 (exclusive), we can use the following code:

```Javascript
// To generate a random floating-point number between 10 (inclusive) and 20 (exclusive)
Math.random() * (20 - 10) + 10;
```

## Deep Dive

Behind the scenes, the `Math.random()` function utilizes an algorithm called a pseudo-random number generator (PRNG). A PRNG is a deterministic algorithm that produces a sequence of numbers that appear to be random, even though they are generated by a set of mathematical operations.

In Javascript, the PRNG used by `Math.random()` is based on a linear congruential algorithm, which means that it generates numbers by multiplying, adding, and finding the remainder of a seed value. The seed value is a starting point for the algorithm and is usually based on the current time. This means that every time we run the `Math.random()` function, we get a different random number.

It's important to note that while PRNGs produce numbers that appear to be random, they are not truly random. They are also not suitable for cryptographic purposes, as the sequence of numbers they generate can be predicted. Thus, for secure purposes, cryptographic random number generators (CSPRNGs) should be used instead of PRNGs.

## See Also

- [Math.random() - MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random)
- [The Art of Random Numbers - BetterExplained](https://betterexplained.com/articles/the-art-of-random-numbers/)
- [Understanding Pseudo-Random Number Generators - Codeburst](https://codeburst.io/understanding-pseudo-random-number-generators-acf44fdf77ac)