content/en/javascript/generating-random-numbers.md, before:

---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
html_title:           "Javascript recipe: Generating random numbers"
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Javascript"
category:             "Javascript"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/javascript/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Generating random numbers is a built-in feature in Javascript that allows programmers to generate pseudorandom numbers for various purposes. From creating random games and simulations to enhancing security with randomized keys, random numbers are essential in modern programming.

## How to:

To generate a random number in Javascript, we can use the ```Math.random()``` method. This method returns a number between 0 (inclusive) and 1 (exclusive). To get a random number within a specific range, we can use the formula ```Math.random() * (max - min) + min```. For example, if we want a random number between 1 and 10, we can use ```Math.random() * (10 - 1) + 1```, which will give us a value between 1 (inclusive) and 10 (exclusive).

```
// Generate a random number between 1 and 10
let randomNumber = Math.random() * (10 - 1) + 1;
console.log(randomNumber); // output: 5.743568029182

// Generate a random integer between 1 and 10
let randomInteger = Math.floor(Math.random() * (10 - 1 + 1) + 1);
console.log(randomInteger); // output: 7
```

## Deep Dive:

The ```Math.random()``` method has been a part of the Javascript language since its inception in 1995. It uses a mathematical algorithm to generate a sequence of pseudorandom numbers that appear to be random. However, this algorithm can still produce patterns and should not be used for critical security purposes. For more secure random numbers, specialized libraries and tools are recommended.

There are alternative methods to generate random numbers in Javascript, such as using the ```Date``` object or libraries like Lodash. These methods may provide different levels of randomness and can be used based on specific needs.

## See Also:

- [MDN Web Docs - Math.random()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random)
- [FreeCodeCamp - How to Generate Random Numbers in JavaScript](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-generate-random-numbers-in-javascript/)
- [Lodash - Random](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15#random)

Commit message:

content with gpt4 (#8)
* english python gleam and elixir

* Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/javascript/generating-random-numbers.md, after:

---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Generating random numbers"
simple_title:         "Generating random numbers"
programming_language: "Javascript"
category:             "Javascript"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/javascript/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Generating random numbers in JavaScript is the creation of an unpredictable number within a given range. We do it in programming to achieve variety, for example, in games, statistics, security algorithms, or simulations.

## How to:

To generate a random number in JavaScript, we use the `Math.random()` function. 

Here's a simple example where we generate a decimal number between 0 (inclusive) and 1 (exclusive):

```JavaScript
let random = Math.random();
console.log(random);
```
If you want a whole number, for example within a specified range, like 1 to 10, you can use a formula like this:

```JavaScript
let random = Math.floor(Math.random() * 10) + 1;
console.log(random);
```

## Deep Dive

Historically, JavaScript uses a pseudo-random algorithm as the basis for `Math.random()`. It's "pseudo" because it's deterministic and would generate the same sequence from the same seed value.

Alternatives to `Math.random()` include libraries such as Chance.js or crypto.getRandomValues for cryptographic purposes.

Under the hood, when you call `Math.random()`, JavaScript's runtime environment utilizes a C++ function behind the scenes to generate these 'random' numbers. This algorithm varies between runtime environments - while Node.js uses V8's implementation, browsers might use different ones.

## See Also

Check these out for more info:

1. [MDN Web Docs on `Math.random()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random)
2. [Details about potential pitfalls when using `Math.random()`](https://v8.dev/blog/math-random)
3. [Chance.js library](http://chancejs.com/)
4. [W3Schools guide on JavaScript Random](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_random.asp)
