content/en/elm/numbers/generating-random-numbers.md, before:

---
title:                "Generating random numbers"
date:                  2024-02-27T22:04:38.367952-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-0125-preview
changelog:
- 2024-02-27, dogweather, edited and tested
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Generating random numbers in Elm involves using the `Random` module to produce pseudo-random numbers, which come in handy for a variety of tasks such as games, simulations, and even as part of algorithms that require stochastic processes. This capability allows developers to add unpredictability and variety to their applications, enhancing user experience and functionality.

## How to:
Elm's pure functional nature means that you can't generate random numbers directly as you might in imperative languages. Instead, you use the `Random` module in conjunction with commands. Here's a basic example that generates a random integer between 1 and 100.

First, install the `Random` module with `elm install elm/random`. Then import it into your Elm file, along with the necessary HTML and event modules, like so:

`src/Main.elm`

```elm
module Main exposing (..)

import Browser
import Html exposing (Html, button, text, div)
import Html.Events exposing (onClick)
import Random
```

For this to be a self-contained example, you can add this boilerplate:
```elm
main =
  Browser.element { init = init, update = update, subscriptions = subscriptions, view = view }

init : () -> (Model, Cmd Msg)
init _ =
  (Model 0, Cmd.none)

subscriptions : Model -> Sub Msg
subscriptions _ =
  Sub.none
```

Next, define a **command** to generate a random number. This involves setting up a `Msg` type to handle the random number once it's generated, a `Model` to store it, and an update function to tie it all together.
```elm
type Msg
    = Generate
    | NewRandom Int

type alias Model = { randomNumber : Int }

update : Msg -> Model -> (Model, Cmd Msg)
update msg model =
    case msg of
        Generate ->
            ( model, Random.generate NewRandom (Random.int 1 100) )

        NewRandom number ->
            ( { model | randomNumber = number }, Cmd.none )
```

To trigger a number generation, you would send a `Generate` message, for instance, through a button in your view:
```elm
view : Model -> Html Msg
view model =
    div []
        [ div [] [ text ("Random Number: " ++ String.fromInt model.randomNumber) ]
        , button [ onClick Generate ] [ text "Generate" ]
        ]
```

When you click the "Generate" button, a random number between 1 and 100 will be displayed.

This simplistic approach can be adapted and expanded, leveraging other functions in the `Random` module to produce random floats, lists, or even complex data structures based on custom types, providing a vast playground for adding unpredictability to your Elm applications.

The Elm Guide goes into much more detail. It also has [an example of rolling a six-sided die](https://guide.elm-lang.org/effects/random).

Commit message:

Add description to dart articles

content/en/elm/numbers/generating-random-numbers.md, after:

---
changelog:
- 2024-02-27, dogweather, edited and tested
date: 2024-02-27 22:04:38.367952-07:00
description: "Generating random numbers in Elm involves using the `Random` module\
  \ to produce pseudo-random numbers, which come in handy for a variety of tasks such\
  \ as\u2026"
lastmod: '2024-03-09T21:06:23.537711-07:00'
model: gpt-4-0125-preview
summary: "Generating random numbers in Elm involves using the `Random` module to produce\
  \ pseudo-random numbers, which come in handy for a variety of tasks such as\u2026"
title: Generating random numbers
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Generating random numbers in Elm involves using the `Random` module to produce pseudo-random numbers, which come in handy for a variety of tasks such as games, simulations, and even as part of algorithms that require stochastic processes. This capability allows developers to add unpredictability and variety to their applications, enhancing user experience and functionality.

## How to:
Elm's pure functional nature means that you can't generate random numbers directly as you might in imperative languages. Instead, you use the `Random` module in conjunction with commands. Here's a basic example that generates a random integer between 1 and 100.

First, install the `Random` module with `elm install elm/random`. Then import it into your Elm file, along with the necessary HTML and event modules, like so:

`src/Main.elm`

```elm
module Main exposing (..)

import Browser
import Html exposing (Html, button, text, div)
import Html.Events exposing (onClick)
import Random
```

For this to be a self-contained example, you can add this boilerplate:
```elm
main =
  Browser.element { init = init, update = update, subscriptions = subscriptions, view = view }

init : () -> (Model, Cmd Msg)
init _ =
  (Model 0, Cmd.none)

subscriptions : Model -> Sub Msg
subscriptions _ =
  Sub.none
```

Next, define a **command** to generate a random number. This involves setting up a `Msg` type to handle the random number once it's generated, a `Model` to store it, and an update function to tie it all together.
```elm
type Msg
    = Generate
    | NewRandom Int

type alias Model = { randomNumber : Int }

update : Msg -> Model -> (Model, Cmd Msg)
update msg model =
    case msg of
        Generate ->
            ( model, Random.generate NewRandom (Random.int 1 100) )

        NewRandom number ->
            ( { model | randomNumber = number }, Cmd.none )
```

To trigger a number generation, you would send a `Generate` message, for instance, through a button in your view:
```elm
view : Model -> Html Msg
view model =
    div []
        [ div [] [ text ("Random Number: " ++ String.fromInt model.randomNumber) ]
        , button [ onClick Generate ] [ text "Generate" ]
        ]
```

When you click the "Generate" button, a random number between 1 and 100 will be displayed.

This simplistic approach can be adapted and expanded, leveraging other functions in the `Random` module to produce random floats, lists, or even complex data structures based on custom types, providing a vast playground for adding unpredictability to your Elm applications.

The Elm Guide goes into much more detail. It also has [an example of rolling a six-sided die](https://guide.elm-lang.org/effects/random).
