content/en/gleam/parsing-html.md, before:

---
title:                "Parsing html"
html_title:           "Gleam recipe: Parsing html"
simple_title:         "Parsing html"
programming_language: "Gleam"
category:             "Gleam"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/gleam/parsing-html.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Learn Gleam by Parsing HTML

## What & Why?
Parsing HTML revolves around understanding and converting HTML strings into structured data. Programmers parse HTML to enable software to extract or read information embedded in web pages automatically.

## How to:
Here's a swift overview of how to parse HTML in Gleam:

```Gleam
import gleam/http.{Uri}
import gleam/string.{replace}

fn parse_html() {
  let html_response = "..."
  let parsed_html = parse_html_data(html_response)
  case parsed_html {
    Error(e) -> "HTML parsing error: " ++ e
    Ok(s) -> "Parsed successfully: " ++ s
  }
}

fn parse_html_data(response: String) -> Result(String, Nil) {
...
}
```
This simply parses HTML from an HTTP response and returns an error message if there's an issue, otherwise, a success message is output. You need to replace `"..."` with the actual HTML response.

## Deep Dive
HTML parsing's been around since the early web ages, with Perl's HTML::Parser being one of the archaic tools. Today, languages have rich libraries making this once arduous task less daunting.

Other Gleam alternatives include libraries like HtmlSport and HtmlTrance as well as tools like Beautiful Soup in Python or Nokogiri in Ruby.

The implementation of HTML parsing in Gleam primarily leverages pattern-matching, a core part of functional programming that Gleam thrives on. This is why the case expressions in the example above are integral.

## See Also
1. [Gleam Documentation](https://gleam.run/docs/)
2. [HtmlSport](https://github.com/warner/HtmlSport)
3. [HtmlTrance](https://github.com/rrva/htmltrance)

Check these resources to deep dive further into the Gleam landscape.

Commit message:

Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/gleam/parsing-html.md, after:

---
title:                "Parsing html"
html_title:           "Gleam recipe: Parsing html"
simple_title:         "Parsing html"
programming_language: "Gleam"
category:             "Gleam"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/gleam/parsing-html.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Parsing HTML is the decoding of HTML markup into a more structured format. Programmers do so to interact with, extract, modify, or render web content programmatically.

## How to:

In Gleam, parsing HTML is not idiomatic due to lack of HTML parsing library. But, let's hypothetically work with a simple string manipulation to retrieve content from HTML.

```gleam
pub fn parse(header: String) -> Result(String, Nil) {
  case String.split(header, "<title>") {
    [] -> Error(Nil)
    [_ | [pre, suf]] ->
      case String.split(suf, "</title>") {
        [] -> Error(Nil)
        [_ | [title, _]] -> Ok(title)
      }
  }
}

assert parse("<title>My Webpage</title>") == Ok("My Webpage")
assert parse("No title here") == Error(Nil)
```

The code above splits the input string around `<title>` and `</title>` tags and returns content between them.

## Deep Dive:

Historically, parsing HTML was crucial: web scrapers and SEO tools extract data, web servers render pages, and browsers present sites to users.

Alternatives to Gleam for HTML parsing involve languages with more robust libraries, such as BeautifulSoup in Python or Jsoup in Java.

In parsing HTML, notable concerns are tag nesting and error handling. Our hypothetical Gleam parsing doesn't address these issues but demonstrates the principle.

## See Also:

Gleam's String API: https://hexdocs.pm/gleam_stdlib/gleam/string/

A discussion on HTML parsing libraries in Rust, which could be a starting point once Gleam attains a wider ecosystem: https://users.rust-lang.org/t/html-parsing/1442

Python's BeautifulSoup Documentation for HTML parsing: https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/doc
