content/en/lua/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, before:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
html_title:           "Lua recipe: Deleting characters matching a pattern"
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "Lua"
category:             "Lua"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/lua/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Pattern matching is identifying and isolating specific characters or strings in a larger text based on a defined pattern. Programmers employ this to clean, manipulate data or just simplify strings.

## How to:

In Lua, `gsub` function is the go-to tool to delete characters matching a pattern. Let's consider you're a coffee lover, seeing 'tea' unnerves you. We can help!

```lua
local mood_killer = 'I absolutely love tea.'
local mood_adjustment = string.gsub(mood_killer, 'tea', '')
print(mood_adjustment)
```
This will output: `'I absolutely love .'`

Here 'tea' is the pattern. `gsub` replaced it with nothing thus deleting 'tea'.

## Deep Dive

Borrowed from Perl, pattern matching arrived in Lua circa late 90s. It's lightweight yet doesn't fully support Regular Expressions.

As an alternative to `gsub`, we have the `match` function. However, it only finds the pattern but won't replace. If you find `gsub` overkill, combine `match` with `remove`.

Lua's pattern matching engine is stack-based and hence can backfire for complex expressions. Contrarily, `gsub` not only matches but also counts matched patterns.

```lua
local mood_killer = 'I absolutely love tea. tea. tea.'
local _, count = string.gsub(mood_killer, 'tea', '')
print(count)
```
The output, quite pleasing to our coffee-lover, '`3`'.

Another side of `gsub` is the ability to work with functions instead of strings. Here's modification only applied when user loves 'tea' more than any other drink.

```lua
local mood_killer = 'I absolutely love tea.'
local new_mood = string.gsub(mood_killer, "(%w+)%s*tea", function(s) return (s=='love') and "hate" or s end)
print(new_mood)
```
Output will be: `'I absolutely hate tea.'`

## See Also

Try online Lua editors ([repl.it](https://replit.com/languages/lua), [tutorialspoint](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/execute_lua_online.php)) for hands-on practice. For deeper knowledge, visit [Lua's guide](https://www.lua.org/pil/20.2.html) on pattern matching or [Wikipedia's write-up](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lua_(programming_language)#Pattern_matching) on Lua.

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/lua/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, after:

---
title:                "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:42:42.361483-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Deleting characters matching a pattern"
programming_language: "Lua"
category:             "Lua"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/lua/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Deleting characters matching a pattern in Lua is about using patterns to identify and remove specific sequences of characters from a string. Programmers do this for tasks like cleaning up input, removing unwanted data, or pre-processing text for further operations.

## How to:

In Lua, we can use the `gsub` function to replace occurrences of a pattern with another string – an empty string when we want to delete them:

```lua
local text = "Hello, 123 World! 456"
local pattern = "%d" -- pattern that matches all digits
local cleanedText, numOfReplacements = text:gsub(pattern, "")

print(cleanedText) -- Output: "Hello,  World!"
print("Number of replacements made:", numOfReplacements) -- Output: "Number of replacements made: 6"
```

Notice that `gsub` also returns the number of replacements made, which can be handy information.

## Deep Dive

Lua patterns are simpler than regular expressions found in other languages but are still powerful. Historically, Lua's decision to implement a lighter pattern-matching mechanism is rooted in keeping the language both lightweight and fast.

Alternatives include using loops with `string.find` and `string.sub` to manually inspect and manipulate strings, but this is generally less efficient than pattern matching with `gsub`.

Implementation-wise, when `gsub` is called with a pattern, Lua internally compiles this pattern into a bytecode which is then executed by the pattern matcher. It's worth noting that there's a distinction between Lua patterns and true regular expressions, with the former having a smaller feature set which excludes constructs like look-aheads or back-references.

## See Also

- Lua 5.4 Reference Manual for `string.gsub`: https://www.lua.org/manual/5.4/manual.html#pdf-string.gsub
- Programming in Lua (first edition) available online for understanding patterns: https://www.lua.org/pil/20.2.html
- An online Lua pattern tester to experiment with Lua's pattern matching: https://www.lua.org/cgi-bin/demo

Remember, these tools will help solidify your understanding of Lua's pattern matching and give you a sandbox to test your string manipulations. Happy coding!
