content/en/swift/converting-a-string-to-lower-case.md, before:

---
title:                "Converting a string to lower case"
html_title:           "Clojure recipe: Converting a string to lower case"
simple_title:         "Converting a string to lower case"
programming_language: "Swift"
category:             "Swift"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/swift/converting-a-string-to-lower-case.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# All You Need to Know About Swift's Lowercase String Method

## What & Why?

In Swift programming, converting a string to lower case is changing all the alphabetical characters in the string from uppercase to lowercase. Programmers do this to standardize and simplify the handling of text data, or implement case-insensitive comparisons.

## How to:

Converting a string to lower case is straightforward in Swift. Here's how:

```Swift
let sentence = "HELLO, WORLD!"
let lowercasedSentence = sentence.lowercased()
print(lowercasedSentence)
```

The output you'll get will be:

```Swift
"hello, world!"
```

## Deep Dive

Swift, developed by Apple, consistently improves on readability and simplicity. The `lowercased()` method is part of the standard Swift library, and it reflects this focus.

Historically, case manipulation in programming languages was complex, often involving ASCII calculations or cumbersome function calls. Swift's `lowercased()` is much more straightforward.

An alternative to `lowercased()` is `localizedLowercase`, which takes current locale settings into account. "HELLO, WORLD!".localizedLowercase outputs "hello, world!", but its results may vary in different locales that have different rules for lowercasing.

Under the hood, `lowercased()` and `localizedLowercase` work by iterating over each Character of the String and transforming it according to Unicode case mapping rules. The mapping is many-to-one, meaning uppercase versions of a single character can vary and still map to the same lower case character.

## See Also:

Detailed information related to Swift's string manipulation can be found in these sources:

1. [String and Character operations - Swift Documentation](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/StringsAndCharacters.html)
2. [Swift Basic Operators](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/BasicOperators.html)
3. [Unicode Case Mappings](https://unicode.org/charts/case/)
   
Happy coding!

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/swift/converting-a-string-to-lower-case.md, after:

---
title:                "Converting a string to lower case"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:39:29.247998-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Converting a string to lower case"
programming_language: "Swift"
category:             "Swift"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/swift/converting-a-string-to-lower-case.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Converting a string to lowercase means swapping any uppercase letters to their lowercase counterparts. Programmers do this for consistency, often for case-insensitive comparisons or standardizing text input.

## How to:

Swift makes this easy with a property called `lowercased`. Here's how you use it:

```Swift
let originalString = "Hello, World!"
let lowercasedString = originalString.lowercased()
print(lowercasedString) // "hello, world!"
```

Sample output:
```
hello, world!
```

## Deep Dive:

Historically, ensuring consistent string case has been crucial in programming, mainly since early computers were very case-sensitive. In Swift, `lowercased()` is a method available on instances of the `String` type. By invoking it, you convert all characters within the string that have lowercased variants to their lowercased forms.

Alternatives to `lowercased()` could be manually traversing the string and replacing each character with its lowercased equivalent by using a mapping function. But, honestly, that's reinventing the wheel.

String lowercasing has some nuances. For instance, the `lowercased()` method uses the current locale to handle specific language casing rules, which is not always the desired behavior. If you need to perform locale-independent conversions, you can resort to `lowercased(with: Locale?)` and pass `nil` as the Locale:

```Swift
let turkishString = "İstanbul"
let lowercasedTurkishString = turkishString.lowercased(with: nil)
print(lowercasedTurkishString) // "i̇stanbul", correct in Unicode, but 'I' without dot might be expected in Turkey.
```

The implementation of `lowercased()` under the hood leverages the Unicode standard which includes complex mapping rules for characters in various scripts, not all of which are a simple matter of 'a' replacing 'A'.

## See Also:

To explore more on strings and character transformations in Swift, dip into the following resources:

- Swift String and Characters documentation: [Swift.org](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/StringsAndCharacters.html)
- Unicode case mapping details: [Unicode Standard](https://www.unicode.org/reports/tr21/tr21-5.html)
- A discussion on string comparison and locale: [NSHipster Article on Locale](https://nshipster.com/locale/)
