content/en/python/reading-command-line-arguments.md, before:

---
title:                "Reading command line arguments"
html_title:           "Python recipe: Reading command line arguments"
simple_title:         "Reading command line arguments"
programming_language: "Python"
category:             "Python"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/python/reading-command-line-arguments.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

In simple terms, reading command line arguments means accepting user input from the command line when running a Python program, instead of hard-coding values directly into the code. Programmers do this to make their program more flexible and adaptable, allowing users to provide different input values without having to change the code every time.

## How to:

To read command line arguments in Python, we use the `sys` module and its `argv` variable. First, we import the module using `import sys`. Then, we can access the argument values using `sys.argv`, which returns a list of strings. The first element of the list (index 0) will always be the name of the Python file being executed. The subsequent elements are the values entered by the user.

```Python
import sys

# Sample code to read two command line arguments and print them out
# python sample.py argument1 argument2

print("Argument 1:", sys.argv[1])  # Output: Argument 1: argument1
print("Argument 2:", sys.argv[2])  # Output: Argument 2: argument2
```

## Deep Dive:

Reading command line arguments has been a common practice in programming since the early days of computers when programs were executed through a command line interface. It allows for a more interactive experience and also makes programs more customizable for different users.

An alternative to using the `sys` module is to use the `argparse` module, which provides more robust functionalities for parsing and validating command line arguments. It also makes the code more readable and organized, with the ability to add descriptions and help texts for each argument.

The implementation of `sys.argv` works by taking the values entered by the user and storing them in a list of strings. This list is then accessible to the program to use as needed. The values can also be converted to different data types using type casting.

## See Also:

- Official Python documentation on command line arguments: https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html#sys.argv
- More information on the `argparse` module: https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html
- A detailed tutorial on using command line arguments in Python: https://realpython.com/command-line-interfaces-python-argparse/

Commit message:

content with gpt4 (#8)
* english python gleam and elixir

* Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/python/reading-command-line-arguments.md, after:

---
title:                "Reading command line arguments"
html_title:           "C++ recipe: Reading command line arguments"
simple_title:         "Reading command line arguments"
programming_language: "Python"
category:             "Python"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/python/reading-command-line-arguments.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Reading command line arguments in Python means getting the input from the user directly from the command line when running the program. It's a must-have for command-line utilities and scripts, to allow for customization on each run without changing the program's code.

## How to:
Python's build-in library "sys" provides access to command-line arguments with its `argv` attribute. The first element, `argv[0]`, is always the script name. Succeeding elements are arguments passed. Here's simple code to print all arguments:

```Python
import sys

print(sys.argv)
```
Running `python hello.py arg1 arg2` gives you `['hello.py', 'arg1', 'arg2']`.

For detailed parsing, use the `argparse` module:

```Python
import argparse

parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(description="A simple argument parser")
parser.add_argument('-n','--name', help='Your Name', required=True)

args = vars(parser.parse_args())
print('Hello ' + args['name'])
```
Running `python hello.py --name John` prints `Hello John`.

## Deep Dive
Python was born Unix-based, where command-line arguments were important, hence `sys.argv` was included from the start. Later, the more advanced `argparse`  was added in Python 2.7.

Alternatives to reading command line arguments are environment variables, file inputs, or hardcoded values. These methods, however, lack the convenience, flexibility, and ease-of-use that command line arguments present.

`sys.argv` is a list of strings, `argparse` parses these strings into more user-friendly types (integers, booleans, etc.) and provides useful feedback and the automatic `--help` option.

## See Also
- Python's [argparse](https://docs.python.org/3/library/argparse.html) tutorial.
- [sys module documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html).
- A handy guide on command line arguments at [Real Python](https://realpython.com/python-command-line-arguments/).
