content/en/python/writing-to-standard-error.md, before:

---
title:                "Writing to standard error"
html_title:           "Python recipe: Writing to standard error"
simple_title:         "Writing to standard error"
programming_language: "Python"
category:             "Python"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/python/writing-to-standard-error.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Writing to standard error in Python is a way for programmers to communicate specific information or errors to the user within their code. It allows for separate output from regular print statements and can be useful for debugging and troubleshooting.

## How to:

```Python
import sys
sys.stderr.write("This message will be printed to standard error")
```

Running this code will produce the output:

```
This message will be printed to standard error
```

## Deep Dive:

Writing to standard error originated from the UNIX operating system in the 1970s. It was standardized as a way for programs to communicate error messages to the user, separate from regular output. This is helpful for troubleshooting and debugging, as error messages can be easily identified and separated.

An alternative to writing to standard error is using the ```logging``` module in Python. This allows for more advanced logging capabilities, such as different levels of severity for messages.

In order to write to standard error, the ```sys``` module must be imported and the ```sys.stderr.write()``` function must be used. The ```stderr``` attribute of the ```sys``` module refers to the standard error stream.

## See Also:

The [official Python documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html#sys.stderr) for the ```sys.stderr``` attribute.

The [Python logging tutorial](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging.html) for more information on advanced logging techniques.

The [wikipedia entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_streams) on standard streams, which includes information on standard error and its history.

Commit message:

content with gpt4 (#8)
* english python gleam and elixir

* Redo all articles up through starting-a-new-project

content/en/python/writing-to-standard-error.md, after:

---
title:                "Writing to standard error"
html_title:           "Python recipe: Writing to standard error"
simple_title:         "Writing to standard error"
programming_language: "Python"
category:             "Python"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/python/writing-to-standard-error.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Writing to Standard Error in Python

## What & Why?
Standard error (`stderr`) is a special type of output stream typically used by programs to output error messages or diagnostics. It helps developers differentiate regular output from error messages and is particularly useful for debugging and for logs.

## How to:
Writing to stderr in Python is straightforward. Use the built-in `sys` module:

```Python
import sys

sys.stderr.write("This is an error message\n")
```

The string you put inside `write()` will be printed to stderr. It would be a good practice to include `\n` at the end of the message to ensure it ends with a newline.

The output will be like:

```Python
This is an error message
```

## Deep Dive
Historically, stderr originated in the Unix tradition, and Python acquired it naturally from there. It's important to note that using stderr does not stop the execution of a program, but does express a statement that an error has occurred.

Although `sys.stderr.write()` is one common way to print to stderr, `print()` function can direct output to stderr with the `file` parameter:

```Python
print('This is an error message', file=sys.stderr)
```

Underneath the surface, Python's `sys.stderr` and `sys.stdout` are file objects representing stderr and stdout (standard output) respectively. When these are called, the interpreter employs the underlying operating system routines to complete the task.

## See Also
For more information, take a look at:
- [Python sys module](https://docs.python.org/3/library/sys.html)
- [Python built-in print()](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#print)
- [Differentiate stdout and stderr](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_streams#Standard_error_(stderr))
