content/uk/powershell/generating-random-numbers.md, before:

---
title:                "Генерація випадкових чисел"
html_title:           "Java: Генерація випадкових чисел"
simple_title:         "Генерація випадкових чисел"
programming_language: "PowerShell"
category:             "PowerShell"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/uk/powershell/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Генерація випадкових чисел в PowerShell

## Що й чому?
Випадкові числа - це числа, які генеруються програмою в доволі непередбачуваний порядок. Програмісти створюють випадкові числа для забезпечення непередбачуваності, скажімо, при тестуванні коду або роботі з хеш-функціями.

## Як це робиться:

Ось декілька прикладів коду для генерації випадкових чисел у PowerShell.

```PowerShell
# Створення об'єкта Get-Random
$randomNumber = Get-Random
# Виводимо на екран випадкове число
Write-Host "Випадкове число: $randomNumber"
```

Виправімо обмеження для генерації числа від 1 до 100.

```PowerShell
# Генерація випадкового числа від 1 до 100
$randomNumber = Get-Random -Minimum 1 -Maximum 100
# Виводимо на екран випадкове число
Write-Host "Випадкове число: $randomNumber"
```

## Занурення в глибину:

Випадкові числа давно є частиною комп'ютерного кодування. У 1946 році, коли виникли перші комп'ютери, випадкові числа вже використовувалися. 

Альтернативами `Get-Random` є методи .NET `[System.random]` та `[System.Security.Cryptography.RNGCryptoServiceProvider]`. `Get-Random` використовує `(new-object random)`, який є частиною .NET, щоб згенерувати псевдовипадкове число. 

Якщо вам потрібні числа з криптографічної якості, краще використовуйте `[System.Security.Cryptography.RNGCryptoServiceProvider]`. 

## Дивіться також:

1. Довідник по PowerShell: [Get-Random](https://docs.microsoft.com/uk-ua/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/get-random?view=powershell-7.1)
2. Розгляд методів генерації випадкових чисел: [Random Number Generation in .NET](https://www.dotnetperls.com/random)
3. Криптографічно безпечне генерування випадкових чисел: [RNGCryptoServiceProvider Class](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.security.cryptography.rngcryptoserviceprovider?view=net-5.0)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/uk/powershell/generating-random-numbers.md, after:

---
title:                "Генерація випадкових чисел"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:49:32.494695-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Генерація випадкових чисел"
programming_language: "PowerShell"
category:             "PowerShell"
tag:                  "Numbers"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/uk/powershell/generating-random-numbers.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why? (Що і Чому?)
Random numbers are surprise elements in a predictable system. Programmers use them for everything from security (like generating keys) to gaming logic (like dice rolls).

## How to (Як це зробити):
In PowerShell, you can summon random numbers easily. Roll a virtual die or pick a secret number with these snippets:

```PowerShell
# Roll a die
Get-Random -Minimum 1 -Maximum 7

# Generate a random number between 0 and 100
Get-Random -Maximum 100
```

Sample output:

```
6
42
```

These get you unpredictability in a snap.

## Deep Dive (Поглиблено):
Historically, true randomness was challenging. Early programs used algorithms that mimicked randomness, known as pseudo-random number generators (PRNGs).

In PowerShell, `Get-Random` taps into .NET's `System.Random` class by default, which is a PRNG. It's sufficient for most tasks but not for high-security needs.

Alternatives include tapping directly into the cryptographic class `[System.Security.Cryptography.RandomNumberGenerator]` for more security-sensitive use cases.

Remember, the upper limit number in `Get-Random -Maximum` is exclusive—you never get that number.

## See Also (Дивіться також):
- Learn more about `[System.Random]`: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.random?view=net-6.0
- For advanced secure random numbers, `[System.Security.Cryptography.RandomNumberGenerator]`: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.security.cryptography.randomnumbergenerator?view=net-6.0
- About randomness in computing: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randomness

No fluff. Get coding, get random! 🎲
