content/en/ruby/extracting-substrings.md, before:

---
title:                "Extracting substrings"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Extracting substrings"
simple_title:         "Extracting substrings"
programming_language: "Ruby"
category:             "Ruby"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/ruby/extracting-substrings.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Extracting substrings is the act of pulling out smaller strings from a larger one using specific indexes. Programmers do this to manipulate, analyze, or segment relevant parts of data within larger text bodies.

## How to:

Ruby provides several methods to extract substrings, let's dive into some.

```Ruby
str = 'WelcometoRubyProgramming'

# Using slice method
puts str.slice(8, 4)  # output: "toRu"

# Using [] method
puts str[8..11]  # output: "toRu"

# Using slice() with a range
puts str.slice(8..11)  # output: "toRu"
```

Note: Ruby counts from zero, so the 8th character is 't'.

## Deep Dive

Extracting substrings has long been a fundamental aspect of programming, tracing back to when manipulation of raw text data became viable. Besides the methods shown, Ruby offers `.substring()`, which behaves similarly. 

Alternatives depend on necessity. Regular expressions could be used to match patterns instead of direct indices. 

When picking a method, consider usage context. `.slice()` modifies the original string and could be risky. `.substring()` doesn't alter the source but requires more memory as it generates a new string. Choose wisely!

## See Also

1. Ruby Doc String slice : [https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.0/String.html#method-i-slice](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.0/String.html#method-i-slice)
2. Ruby Doc Regex: [https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.1/Regexp.html](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.1/Regexp.html)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/ruby/extracting-substrings.md, after:

---
title:                "Extracting substrings"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:46:34.472563-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Extracting substrings"
programming_language: "Ruby"
category:             "Ruby"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/ruby/extracting-substrings.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Extracting substrings is about pulling out specific bits of text from a string. Programmers do it to manipulate and use parts of data—like grabbing usernames from email addresses or parsing dates out of timestamps.

## How to:

Ruby makes extracting substrings simple. Let's cut to the chase:

```Ruby
str = "Hello, Ruby World!"

# Method 1: Using array indices
substring = str[7, 4] # "Ruby"
puts substring

# Method 2: Using the slice method
slice = str.slice(7, 4) # "Ruby"
puts slice

# Method 3: Regular expressions
match = str[/[Rr]uby/] # "Ruby"
puts match

# Method 4: split and array access
split_array = str.split # default splits on whitespace
picked_word = split_array[2] # "World!"
puts picked_word
```

Sample output for each snippet will be "Ruby", "Ruby", "Ruby", "World!" respectively.

## Deep Dive

Back in the day, extracting substrings was a more verbose process. Ruby's evolved, though. Today, you've got methods and regex at your disposal.

Here's what's happening under the hood: `[7, 4]` means start at the 7th character and grab the next 4. `slice` is just a methodic way to say the same thing. With regex, `/[Rr]uby/` is like saying, "Catch me a 'Ruby' or 'ruby’, whichever you find first." `split` chops the string into an array at each space, and `[2]` picks the third word—arrays start at zero, remember.

Alternatives? Sure, Ruby's got 'em. `partition`, `rpartition`, and `match` could also play here. Each has its case but knowing `.slice` and regex covers most bases. 

Bottom line: substring extraction is about precise text manipulation. The right tool means clean, effective code.

## See Also

- Ruby Docs on String: [ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.0/String.html](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.0/String.html)
- Regular Expressions in Ruby: [ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.0/Regexp.html](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.0/Regexp.html)
- Ruby Style Guide on Strings: [rubystyle.guide/#strings](https://rubystyle.guide/#strings)
