content/en/ruby/sending-an-http-request-with-basic-authentication.md, before:

---
title:                "Sending an http request with basic authentication"
html_title:           "Fish Shell recipe: Sending an http request with basic authentication"
simple_title:         "Sending an http request with basic authentication"
programming_language: "Ruby"
category:             "Ruby"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/ruby/sending-an-http-request-with-basic-authentication.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Sending HTTP Requests with Basic Authentication in Ruby

## What & Why?
Sending an HTTP request with basic authentication is about getting data from a server that needs a username and password. It's used when you're dealing with protected information that you want only specific individuals to access.

## How to:
Ruby's `net/http` library makes sending HTTP requests and handling responses relatively straightforward.

Here's an example:

```Ruby
require 'net/http'
require 'uri'
require 'base64'

uri = URI('http://example.com')

http = Net::HTTP.new(uri.host, uri.port)
request = Net::HTTP::Get.new(uri.request_uri)
request.basic_auth 'username', 'password'

response = http.request(request)

puts response.body
```

In this script, we're requiring necessary libraries, preparing an HTTP request with basic authentication, sending the request, and printing out the server response.

## Deep Dive
Back in the day, basic authentication seemed perfect for a world where simplicity was king. Yet, basic authentication isn't secure on its own — your credentials are essentially in plaintext. For this reason, it's recommended you use it over HTTPS, not HTTP.

Alternatives to basic authentication include token-based methods, like OAuth, JWT, etc. These methods do not require passing credentials in every request which adds an extra level of security.

In our Ruby example, we used a built-in library, `net/http`. Though it’s a bit verbose, `net/http` is part of Ruby’s standard library, doesn't add dependencies, and is reliable.

Want something less verbose? Check out the Faraday and HTTParty gems. They abstract away some complexities of `net/http`, offering a simplified API.

## See Also
- An in-depth guide on HTTP authentication: [HTTP Authentication](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Authentication).
- Details about Ruby’s net/http library: [Ruby Doc - Net::HTTP](https://ruby-doc.org/stdlib-2.7.1/libdoc/net/http/rdoc/Net/HTTP.html).
- Ruby Authentication Libraries: [Devise](https://github.com/heartcombo/devise), [Authlogic](https://github.com/binarylogic/authlogic), [Clearance](https://github.com/thoughtbot/clearance).
- Alternatives to `net/http`: [Faraday](https://github.com/lostisland/faraday), [HTTParty](https://github.com/jnunemaker/httparty).

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/ruby/sending-an-http-request-with-basic-authentication.md, after:

---
title:                "Sending an http request with basic authentication"
date:                  2024-01-20T18:02:36.051914-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Sending an http request with basic authentication"
programming_language: "Ruby"
category:             "Ruby"
tag:                  "HTML and the Web"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/ruby/sending-an-http-request-with-basic-authentication.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

In Ruby, sending an HTTP request with basic authentication involves adding a username and password to your request header. Programmers do this to access resources that require user verification.

## How to:

To send an HTTP request with basic authentication, you'll typically use the `Net::HTTP` module in Ruby. Here's a quick example:

```Ruby
require 'net/http'
require 'uri'

uri = URI('http://example.com')
username = 'your_username'
password = 'your_password'

request = Net::HTTP::Get.new(uri)
request.basic_auth(username, password)

response = Net::HTTP.start(uri.hostname, uri.port) {|http|
  http.request(request)
}

puts response.body
```

If you run this code with valid credentials, you'll see the body of the response printed out. If the credentials are invalid, you'll get an error message.

## Deep Dive

Basic authentication has a long history as part of web protocols, going back to the early RFCs that defined the workings of the internet. It's a simple method of access control: the username and password are encoded with Base64 and passed in the HTTP header.

However, basic authentication transmits credentials in plaintext (albeit encoded), so it's not secure over HTTP. It's better to use HTTPS to keep credentials safe from prying eyes. 

There are more secure alternatives like OAuth, which is often used for API authentication. OAuth allows users to authorize third-party access without sharing credentials. Still, basic authentication remains in use, especially for internal applications and quick-and-dirty scripting.

One detail to note is that Ruby's `Net::HTTP` doesn’t handle Basic Auth natively until you explicitly use the `basic_auth` method. It's also crucial to handle possible exceptions and error responses that might result from the HTTP request.

## See Also

- Ruby standard library `Net::HTTP` documentation: https://ruby-doc.org/stdlib-3.0.0/libdoc/net/http/rdoc/Net/HTTP.html
- RFC 7617, 'The 'Basic' HTTP Authentication Scheme': https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7617
- An intro to OAuth for authentication: https://oauth.net/2/
- More on Ruby and HTTP requests: https://www.rubyguides.com/2019/08/ruby-http-request/
