content/zh/elixir/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, before:

---
title:                "删除匹配模式的字符"
html_title:           "Java: 删除匹配模式的字符"
simple_title:         "删除匹配模式的字符"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/zh/elixir/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## 是什么？为什么？
在编程中，删除匹配模式的字符是一种常见的字符串操作。通过找到匹配特定模式的子字符串并将其替换为其他字符串或从主字符串中移除，程序员可以处理和操作数据。

## 如何操作
在 Elixir 中，可以使用 `String.replace/3` 函数从字符串中删除匹配模式的字符。使用正则表达式进行匹配。

```elixir
IO.puts String.replace("Hello, World!", ~r/[aeiou]/, "")
```

输出：

```elixir
"Hll, Wrld!"
```

上述代码将所有元音 (a, e, i, o, u) 从字符串 "Hello, World!" 中删除。

## 深入了解
Elixir 的 `String.replace/3` 函数遵循了来自于它所依赖的 ErLang runtime 的正则表达式标准。然而，正则表达式并非唯一的解决方案。你也可以通过 `String.split/2`函数来制定一个模式，然后通过 `Enum.join/2` 函数将结果连接。 

举个例子：

```elixir
IO.puts Enum.join(String.split("Hello, World!", ~r/[aeiou]/), "")
```

输出：

```elixir
"Hll, Wrld!"
```

## 参见
1. [Elixir String Functions](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/String.html)
2. [Elixir Regular Expressions](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Regex.html)
3. [Elixir Enumerables](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Enum.html)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/zh/elixir/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md, after:

---
title:                "匹配模式删除字符"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:41:49.786516-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "匹配模式删除字符"
programming_language: "Elixir"
category:             "Elixir"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/zh/elixir/deleting-characters-matching-a-pattern.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why? (是什么以及为什么？)
在编程中，删除字符意味着根据特定模式移除字符串中的一些元素。这通常用于数据清洗，比如去除无用的空格、换行符或者非法字符。

## How to: (如何操作：)
Elixir provides the `String` module which contains functions to handle string manipulations. Here's a simple example of deleting characters:

```elixir
# 删除字符串中所有的数字
string = "My phone number is 123-456-7890."
clean_string = String.replace(string, ~r/\d+/, "")
IO.puts(clean_string)
# Output: My phone number is --.
```

Or if you want to strip whitespace from a string, you can do this:

```elixir
# 删除字符串前后的空格
string = "   Hello, World!   "
trimmed_string = String.trim(string)
IO.puts(trimmed_string)
# Output: Hello, World!
```

## Deep Dive (深入了解)
Removing characters matching a pattern in Elixir is often done using regular expressions (regex). Regex is a powerful pattern-matching language that's been around for decades. While Elixir's `String` module is quite robust, alternatives such as `Regex` module or list comprehensions could also be used for more complex patterns.

The Elixir standard library leverages the high performance of Erlang's underlying regular expression library, which is based on Perl's regular expression library. This makes operations like matching and replacing highly efficient in Elixir.

Besides performance considerations, thoughtfully choosing regexp patterns is crucial as poorly designed patterns can lead to inefficient or even incorrect code.

## See Also (另请参阅)
- Elixir's `String` module documentation: https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/String.html
- `Regex` module documentation: https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Regex.html
- Interactive Elixir regex tool: https://regexr.com/ - While it's not Elixir-specific, it's helpful for testing regex patterns that can be used in Elixir.
