content/en/clojure/creating-a-temporary-file.md, before:

---
title:                "Creating a temporary file"
html_title:           "C# recipe: Creating a temporary file"
simple_title:         "Creating a temporary file"
programming_language: "Clojure"
category:             "Clojure"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/clojure/creating-a-temporary-file.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Unwrapping Temporary File Creation in Clojure

## What & Why?
Creating a temporary file is a typical task in programming performed to temporarily store data, often because it's too large to hold in memory. It supports operations such as sorting large data sets or storing user session data in web applications.

## How to:
To create a temporary file in Clojure, you can use Java interop. Clojure, being a hosted language on JVM, allows this. Here's a simple example:

```Clojure
(import 'java.nio.file.Files)
(import 'java.nio.file.Paths)

(defn create-temp-file []
  (.toString (Files/createTempFile (Paths/get "./" nil) "temp" ".txt")))
```
Call the function to create a temporary file in the current directory:

```Clojure
(create-temp-file)
;=> "./temp7205760672390790.txt"
```

Here, "temp" is the prefix and ".txt" is the suffix of the temporary file. 

## Deep Dive
Clojure, launched in 2007, did not initially have clear, in-built capabilities for file I/O operations that later languages adopted. The developers frequently fell back to using Java interop for tasks like creating temporary files. 

An alternative to using Java Interop is using libraries such as `clojure.java.io`. While Java Interop prevents unnecessary abstraction, additional libraries can provide a more idiomatic Clojure feel. 

When `Files/createTempFile` is invoked, Java's File I/O API creates a new, empty file in the specified directory. This file is temporary, meaning it will automatically be deleted when the JVM is terminated, thus preventing unwanted accumulation of such files. This detail is handy when you need temporary storage, but don't want to manage the cleanup.

## See Also
For further reading, refer to:

1. [Clojure java.io Documentation](https://clojure.github.io/clojure/clojure.java.io-api.html)
2. [Java nio Files Documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/nio/file/Files.html)

Remember, practice is a key part of wrapping your head around this, so try it out!

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/clojure/creating-a-temporary-file.md, after:

---
title:                "Creating a temporary file"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:39:40.540640-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Creating a temporary file"
programming_language: "Clojure"
category:             "Clojure"
tag:                  "Files and I/O"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/clojure/creating-a-temporary-file.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?
Creating a temporary file is the process of making a short-lived file for intermediate data storage. Programmers use them for things like caching, data processing, or when it's better not to clutter permanent storage.

## How to:
Clojure makes it simple. The `clojure.java.io` library has your back.

```Clojure
(require '[clojure.java.io :as io])

; Create a temp file
(def temp-file (io/file (io/create-temp-file "prefix-" ".txt")))

; Use the temp file
(spit temp-file "Temporary data is temporary")

; Check contents
(println (slurp temp-file)) ; => "Temporary data is temporary"

; Clean up by deleting the temp file when you're done
(.delete temp-file)
```

Nothing sticks forever. Our temporary data now rests in peace.

## Deep Dive
The notion of temporary files has been around since the early days of computing, mainly to avoid using up limited primary storage. It's like digital rent-a-space.

Clojure leans on Java's shoulders here, using Java's `File` class capabilities. While you could dive into the Java jungle directly, Clojure wraps it up neatly.

Alternatives? You bet. Temp directories are a thing. But that's another story, and Clojure has got that covered too (enter `create-temp-dir`).

Why not just use memory? Well, temp files are perfect for handling data too big for RAM or when you'd like a physical file without worrying about long-term storage or cleanup.

## See Also
- Clojure's own [IO documentation](https://clojure.github.io/clojure/clojure.java.io-api.html)
- Java's [File docs](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/io/File.html) — for the foundation details.
- Perhaps wander through [Java's NIO file package](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/nio/file/package-summary.html) for large scale and more complex file operations beyond the basics.
