content/en/clojure/searching-and-replacing-text.md, before:

---
title:                "Searching and replacing text"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Searching and replacing text"
simple_title:         "Searching and replacing text"
programming_language: "Clojure"
category:             "Clojure"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/clojure/searching-and-replacing-text.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

# Search and Replace Text in Clojure

## What & Why?

Searching and replacing text is a task programmers often need; it involves scanning and substitifying portions of strings. Very convenient for data clean-up, pattern recognition and much more.

## How to:

In Clojure, use `clojure.string/replace` function for search and replace. Keyword arguments are: `:pattern` (what to search) and `:replacement`(what to replace it with).

```Clojure
(require '[clojure.string :as str])

(defn replace-text
  [text pattern replacement]
  (str/replace text pattern replacement))
```

Example input: 

```Clojure
(replace-text "Hello, Programmers" "Programmers" "World")
```

Example output:

```Clojure
"Hello, World"
```

## Deep Dive:

This concept's been around since early programming days. Stems from manual typesetting, where physical blocks of type were replaced.

Alternatives to `str/replace` in Clojure could be `re-seq` (returns a sequence of all matches) or using regular expressions (regex). But regex might be overkill for simple search-replace.

On implementation, `str/replace` functions will convert the pattern into a regex if not already, so there is a slight overhead to consider.

## See Also:

1. [Clojure Docs - clojure.string](https://clojuredocs.org/clojure.string)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/clojure/searching-and-replacing-text.md, after:

---
title:                "Searching and replacing text"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:57:33.332118-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Searching and replacing text"
programming_language: "Clojure"
category:             "Clojure"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/clojure/searching-and-replacing-text.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Searching and replacing text lets you find specific strings in a body of text and swap them out with something else. Programmers do it for quick edits, massive refactoring, or automated text processing. It's a basic, yet powerful, text manipulation technique.

## How to:

In Clojure, we wield the `clojure.string/replace` function to search and replace text. Let's cut to the chase with some code:

```clojure
(require '[clojure.string :as str])

;; Basic replacement
(str/replace "I like apples" "apples" "oranges")
;; => "I like oranges"

;; Using a regular expression to replace all vowels
(str/replace "Hello, World!" "[AEIOUaeiou]" "*")
;; => "H*ll*, W*rld!"

;; Replacement with a function for dynamic changes
(str/replace "I have 2 apples and 5 bananas"
             #"\d+"
             (fn [match] (str (inc (Integer/parseInt match)))))
;; => "I have 3 apples and 6 bananas"
```

Simple as that. Run it, and you'll see the transformations right there in your REPL.

## Deep Dive

Searching and replacing in text isn't new. It's age-old in computing. We got it from early editors like `sed` in Unix. We've come a long way since then.

Clojure, being on the JVM, means you've got Java's regular expression prowess under the hood. Performance-wise, it's nifty for quick scripts but remember, overuse in large-scale text processing can hurt performance.

As for alternatives, besides `clojure.string/replace`, there's regex-based libraries or even writing your custom function if you're feeling adventurous. Think about `replace-first` if you only need a one-shot change.

Functionally, Clojure's approach to immutability means each replacement results in a new string. No mutable strings mean fewer bugs and surprises.

## See Also

To dive deeper, check out these resources:

- Clojure's `clojure.string` [API documentation](https://clojuredocs.org/clojure.string/replace)
- On regular expressions, Java's [Pattern class](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html)
