content/en/php/finding-the-length-of-a-string.md, before:

---
title:                "Finding the length of a string"
html_title:           "Arduino recipe: Finding the length of a string"
simple_title:         "Finding the length of a string"
programming_language: "PHP"
category:             "PHP"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/php/finding-the-length-of-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Finding the length of a string computes the number of characters in a given string. Programmers do it to manage data effectively, for manipulation purposes, or to check the validity of input data.

## How to:

In PHP, you use the `strlen()` function to find the length of a string. Here's a simple example:

```PHP
$text = "Hello, world!";
$length = strlen($text);
echo $length;
```
Sample output of this code is `13`.

For multi-byte characters (e.g., emojis), use `mb_strlen()`:

```PHP
$text = "Hello, world! 😃";
$length = mb_strlen($text, 'UTF-8');
echo $length;
```
Sample output now is `14`.

## Deep Dive

1. **Historical Context**: Previously, PHP programmers mainly relied on `strlen()` to find the length of a string. However, with internationalization and growing character diversity in mind, `mb_strlen()` was introduced to correctly handle multi-byte characters.

2. **Alternatives**: Besides `strlen()` and `mb_strlen()`, there are alternatives like `iconv_strlen()` or `grapheme_strlen()`. These functions might yield different results for the same string, depending on the encoding.

3. **Implementation Details**: `strlen()` simply counts the number of bytes in a string. `mb_strlen()`, meanwhile, takes into account that a single character can be represented by more than one byte.

## See Also

- PHP Documentation on `strlen()` [link](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.strlen.php)
- Stack Overflow thread on "Why should I use `mb_strlen()` instead of `strlen()`?" [link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3656713/why-should-i-use-mb-strlen-instead-of-strlen)
- PHP Manual on character encoding [link](https://www.php.net/manual/en/mbstring.supported-encodings.php)

Commit message:

Making sure all articles have been done with gpt-4-turbo. It's much better than gpt-4. (#10)
* remove articles to refill

* new files

content/en/php/finding-the-length-of-a-string.md, after:

---
title:                "Finding the length of a string"
date:                  2024-01-20T17:47:46.456582-07:00
model:                 gpt-4-1106-preview
simple_title:         "Finding the length of a string"
programming_language: "PHP"
category:             "PHP"
tag:                  "Strings"
editURL:              "https://github.com/dogweather/forkful/blob/master/content/en/php/finding-the-length-of-a-string.md"
---

{{< edit_this_page >}}

## What & Why?

Finding the length of a string means determining how many characters it consists of. Programmers often need this information for tasks like validating input, managing substrings, or simply formatting output.

## How to:

Use the `strlen()` function like this:

```php
<?php
$text = "Hello, world!";
$length = strlen($text);
echo $length; // Output: 13
?>
```

If you run this, you'll see `13` on your screen because "Hello, world!" is 13 characters long, including the space and exclamation point.

## Deep Dive

The `strlen()` function has been part of PHP since the early versions. It's straightforward and works based on the number of bytes, which is usually equivalent to the number of characters in strings without special encoding considerations.

However, with the internationalization of web applications, dealing with multiple languages and character encodings became usual. Characters in UTF-8, for instance, can use more than one byte. That's where `mb_strlen()` comes in:

```php
<?php
// A string with multibyte characters
$multibyteText = "こんにちは";
$length = mb_strlen($multibyteText, "UTF-8");
echo $length; // Output: 5
?>
```

Five characters, but more bytes. The `mb_strlen()` function respects character encoding, ensuring accurate length checks for multibyte strings.

`strlen()` is fast and suitable for single-byte character sets. `mb_strlen()`, while slightly slower due to its need to handle more complex encoding, is necessary when working with internationalized text.

## See Also

- [PHP `strlen()` official documentation](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.strlen.php)
- [PHP `mb_strlen()` official documentation](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.mb-strlen.php)
- [PHP Multibyte String extension](https://www.php.net/manual/en/book.mbstring.php)
